{"created_date": "2017-04-20T08:57:38-04:00", "abstract": "Rudolph W. Giuliani, who is negotiating in the case of Reza Zarrab, a Turkish gold trader, said he was seeking a resolution that would promote national security interests.", "title": "Giuliani Sees Diplomatic Mission in Turk\u2019s Iran Sanctions Case, Affidavit Shows", "source": "The New York Times", "updated_date": "2017-04-20T08:58:42-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/20/nyregion/rudy-giuliani-reza-zarrab-iran-sanctions-case.html", "section": "N.Y. / Region", "material_type_facet": "News", "published_date": "2017-04-19T20:00:00-04:00", "text": "When Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York City, traveled overseas recently to see President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, the meeting was kept secret, and perhaps for good reason. The two men had been brought together by a matter of common interest: the fate of Reza Zarrab, a Turkish gold trader jailed in Manhattan on charges of conspiring to violate the American sanctions on Iran. Mr. Giuliani represents Mr. Zarrab, while Mr. Erdogan has taken an interest in Mr. Zarrab\u2019s case and has publicly criticized the American government\u2019s prosecution as unfair. Now, Mr. Giuliani has for the first time acknowledged the contours of his unusual effort: In a newly unsealed court affidavit, he makes it clear that he is trying to turn a criminal case into a matter of international diplomacy. In the affidavit, Mr. Giuliani, who is close to President Trump, said he was seeking a resolution to the case that will be favorable for Mr. Zarrab \u201cas part of some agreement between the United States and Turkey that will promote the national security interests of the United States.\u201d Mr. Giuliani\u2019s efforts come at a time when Mr. Erdogan has become even more powerful in Turkey after a hotly disputed referendum that expanded his authoritarian rule and drew a congratulatory phone call on Monday from Mr. Trump. After Mr. Zarrab was charged a year ago, his case became a focus of Mr. Erdogan. The Turkish president claimed last year that there were \u201cmalicious\u201d intentions in the prosecution, and he raised the matter with then-Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. during talks at the United Nations, according to Turkish news reports. On March 30, during a visit to Ankara, Turkey, by Rex W. Tillerson, the American secretary of state, Turkey\u2019s foreign minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu, accused Preet Bharara, who was the United States attorney in Manhattan when Mr. Zarrab was arrested, of being a pawn of anti-Turkish forces. Mr. Bharara, who had been fired by Mr. Trump three weeks earlier, said after Mr. Cavusoglu\u2019s comments, \u201cI am not going to comment on false and silly political propaganda by a foreign official regarding a case that I no longer oversee.\u201d Mr. Zarrab\u2019s decision to retain Mr. Giuliani and another prominent lawyer, Michael B. Mukasey, a former attorney general in the George W. Bush administration, was revealed in letters filed last month to the judge. In one letter, Mr. Zarrab\u2019s lead lawyer, Benjamin Brafman, wrote, \u201cTheir roles will not require any appearance in court.\u201d The judge, Richard M. Berman of Federal District Court, asked Mr. Brafman to provide affidavits from Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Mukasey describing the work they had been retained to perform on Mr. Zarrab\u2019s behalf. The judge said the affidavits, particularly if they contained privileged information, could be filed under seal and ex parte, meaning the government would also not be able to see them. Mr. Brafman said on Wednesday evening that he had filed affidavits from both lawyers in that manner, but then, at the judge\u2019s direction, refiled them publicly. \u201cThe affidavits speak for themselves,\u201d Mr. Brafman said. (Mr. Mukasey\u2019s affidavit is nearly identical to Mr. Giuliani\u2019s.) Mr. Zarrab, 33, who was born in Iran and moved to Turkey as an infant, has dual citizenship. He was charged with conspiring to facilitate millions of dollars in transactions on behalf of Iran and other sanctioned entities through the use of false documents and front companies, and with conspiracies to commit bank fraud and to commit money laundering. He has pleaded not guilty. Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Mukasey do not say whether, as part of some agreement between Turkey and the United States, they propose to have Mr. Zarrab\u2019s charges dismissed. But it is clear their discussions have not been with the United States attorney\u2019s office in Manhattan, which is prosecuting Mr. Zarrab, but rather with higher officials in the Trump administration. \u201cSenior officials in both the U.S. government and the Turkish government remain receptive to pursuing the possibility of an agreement that could promote the security of the United States and resolve the issues in this case,\u201d Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Mukasey said in their affidavits. They added that such \u201creceptiveness is hardly surprising,\u201d considering that none of the transactions in which Mr. Zarrab was alleged to have participated \u201cinvolved weapons or nuclear technology, or any other contraband,\u201d and \u201cthat Turkey is situated in a part of the world strategically critical to the United States.\u201d Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Mukasey said that Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Mr. Bharara were apprised \u201cin general terms\u201d in advance of their meetings with Mr. Erdogan and other Turkish officials. They also discussed their roles and were briefed by a State Department representative in Turkey before they met with Mr. Erdogan. In the affidavits, Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Mukasey expressed apparent frustration that their roles had become public and suggested their efforts could be \u201ccompromised by leaked information and misinformation.\u201d \u201cThe court should treat most seriously any apparent effort to subvert an entirely lawful\u201d attempt by Mr. Zarrab\u2019s lawyers \u201cto pursue a state-to-state resolution of this case,\u201d Mr. Mukasey wrote.", "item_type": "Article"}