{"abstract": "A new health care reporting team recounts how a Medicaid story took on new life after an attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act failed.", "item_type": "Article", "text": "On the Friday last month that the House Republicans\u2019 bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act was supposed to go to the floor, as it became increasingly apparent that the legislation was on the verge of collapse, three reporters worried that a story they had been working on as part of The New York Times\u2019s new approach to health care coverage might collapse with it. Kate Zernike, Abby Goodnough and Pam Belluck, members of The Times\u2019s new health care reporting team, which had formed only months earlier, had put together a piece that described the surprising history of Medicaid, a program that one in five Americans has come to rely on for health care. \u201cWe had put a ton of reporting into a story on a premise that a bill was going to pass that was going to fundamentally change Medicaid,\u201d Ms. Goodnough said. So when they learned that Speaker Paul D. Ryan had pulled the bill, \u201cat first we kind of thought, the story\u2019s dead.\u201d But it was about to be resurrected. The next day, Celia Dugger, The Times\u2019s health and science editor, put the new team to work. Ms. Goodnough and Ms. Zernike began reaching out to legislators who had opposed the bill to find out if the Medicaid cuts had played any role in their decision. Less than 72 hours later, the piece ran on the front page \u2014 no longer a story about an entitlement program on the chopping block but one about an institution so ingrained in American health care that its imperilment had contributed to the bill\u2019s failure. Historically, reporters covering different facets of the beat \u2014 medical treatment, policy, business \u2014 have been spread across various desks corresponding with the print sections of the paper. But health care is a sprawling subject. \u201cPeople don\u2019t live health in those silos,\u201d Ms. Dugger said. So in January, health reporters and editors from across the paper were pulled together into a new team, led by Ms. Dugger, that\u2019s more reflective of how tightly the different threads of health care are knotted together. (The Times has formed other teams that similarly concentrate on single topics like climate and gender.) There are 19 reporters on Ms. Dugger\u2019s staff, including three former Business Day reporters and two, Ms. Goodnough and Ms. Zernike, who moved over from the national desk.  Though many members of the new team had begun meeting regularly during the Obamacare years to discuss stories and coordinate coverage, their diffusion across desks presented logistical hurdles, especially if reporters on different desks wanted to work together. Before the reorganization, said Ms. Goodnough, who covered the impacts of the Affordable Care Act, \u201cwe would have to get buy-in from two sets of editors and two desks and coordinate other priorities our respective editors may have had.\u201d Now, the team can work strategically and think expansively about health care without trying to cram a complicated story into one box or another. For instance, when Margot Sanger-Katz, who writes policy analyses for The Upshot, collaborates on a story with the reporter Reed Abelson, who joined the health team from Business Day, Ms. Sanger-Katz can bring the expertise on the policy structure and incentives, and Ms. Abelson can report from insurers\u2019 point of view. \u201cWhen we work together,\u201d Ms. Sanger-Katz said, the story can \u201ccrisply encapsulate both sides of that equation, the policy-making side and the business side of it, to really show how things are working.\u201d As the team gets settled in, the aim is to tackle more ambitious, collaborative projects at the intersections of the different vectors of health care. There will also be more visual storytelling \u2014 the health team has been working closely with the graphics editor Haeyoun Park on infographics that elucidate opaque health policy and legislation \u2014 and, in keeping with The Times\u2019s push to grow its international readership, an increased focus on global health coverage, particularly stories that examine the connections between business and public health. Ultimately the reorganization is meant, quite literally, to meet readers where they live: Covering the enormously complex Rube Goldberg machine that is the health care system means covering how those interlocking dynamics shape each other \u2014 and the lives of ordinary people they touch. When the Medicaid story took an unexpected turn, reporters tacked along with it, generating a piece that wove together real-time political reporting, historical narrative, policy analysis and interviews with those who might have been affected by a rollback \u2014 program recipients and their families. \u201cIt was a national story, a policy story, and a human story,\u201d Ms. Dugger said.", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/18/insider/this-medicaid-story-not-dead-health-care-coverage.html", "source": "The New York Times", "updated_date": "2017-04-18T19:56:46-04:00", "material_type_facet": "News", "published_date": "2017-04-17T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "A New Act for Health Care Coverage", "created_date": "2017-04-18T19:56:02-04:00", "section": "Times Insider"}