{"title": "Data Dive: @RealDonaldTrump Over 100 Days - NBC News", "tile": "Apr 29 2017, 8:58 am ET", "text": "In his first 100 days as president of the United States, Donald Trump has only skipped two days communicating with the country via @RealDonaldTrump, tweeting over 500 times total since Inauguration Day. At the start of Trump's term, it was clear a majority of Americans across party lines were not thrilled with his tweeting habits. One of the most consistent results in public polling about the president is that voters \u2014 and even Trump's fans \u2014 are not happy about him tweeting. A recent poll of Trump supporters showed that even about half of Trump backers disapprove of his use of the 140-character medium. So, has he slowed down at all? According to NBC News' analysis of every.single.tweet sent from @RealDonaldTrump since Jan. 20, Trump tweeted at least 30 times more in his first 50 days than his last. But that isn't exactly a slowdown. The president is still tweeting an average of 35 times per week. Where the tweets are coming from, however, has shifted dramatically. Here's what we've deduced over the first 100 days: Or something... While the volume of Trump tweets have been relatively consistent throughout the first 100 days, tweets sent from his Android device, the personal phone he mostly used during the 2016 campaign and where we typically hear the president at his most unfiltered, have drastically dropped off. The president has only tweeted from his Android phone twice in the second half of his first 100 days in office, compared to 166 times in the first half. Trump has sent roughly 140 tweets per month and generally around the same times. When should you start tuning in? The average time of a morning tweet sent before noon is 8:17:06 a.m. ET. Notable, in his first 50 days, around 88 percent of Trump's morning tweets came from Trump's Android device, where he would often comment on morning cable news or a headline he didn't agree with. This may or may not have to do with a security threat, as Wired recently deduced. Shocker: Trump loves the word \"great.\" It's the most popular word sent from both of his devices, used a total of 83 times throughout the first 100 days. \"Great\" also happens to be the most common word used by Press Secretary Sean Spicer during his on-camera briefings. Not a word, but Trump has also used a total of 281 exclamation points in his tweets. On one occasion, he used the strong double exclamation point: !! Among his most commonly tweeted words sent from his iPhone are \"Russia,\" \"Jobs\" and \"America.\" On the Android, \"Fake News\" is a major trend, along with \"Big,\" \"Obama,\" and \"The Failing @NYTimes.\" Trump's most incendiary tweetstorms have often come as his disapproval is ticking upward. He's been particularly prolific when taking on \"fake news\" and negative leaks about his administration, grievances he's typically aired at his presidency's lowest points. But the correlation between his negative tweeting and his falling approval was significantly stronger in his presidency's first 50 days than in the latter half of his time in office so far. That may have something to do with the disappearance of Trump's personal Android phone, which he reportedly used early in his presidency to send Twitter missives without the filter of watchful aides. In Trump's first 50 days, about 65 percent of Trump's tweets were sent using an Android phone. In the second 50 days, all but two tweets \u2014 99 percent \u2014 were sent via iPhone. Trump's phone may have changed, but his feuding has not. In fact, it's increased, taking on more targets than his first 50 days. Trump overall has three major targets in his tweets: Obama/Obamacare/the Obama administration, the Democratic Party and the \"fake news\" media. During his first 50 days in office, Trump predominantly aimed fighting words at all sorts of media companies, from network and cable news to print and digital publications. In his second 50 days, Trump rarely (by comparison) called out an organization by name in a tweet. He also began targeting \"North Korea\" and the Clintons heavily. Trump's controversial executive order to suspend people coming into the country from six Muslim-majority countries drew the most attention on Twitter, accounting for two out of the top five most mentioned topics on the social media platform.", "url": "http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/president-trumps-first-100-days/100-days-realdonaldtrump-data-dive-n752751"}