{"url": "http://www.nbcnews.com/better/careers/how-write-cover-letter-people-will-want-read-n753416", "title": "How to Write a Cover Letter People Will Want to Read - NBC News", "time": "May 2 2017, 11:01 am ET", "source": "NBC", "text": "Your cover letter is like a handshake. It forms a person's first impression of you, and the way you do it speaks volumes about yourself. And just like a handshake, it's silly that we judge a person so much based on it, but we do. First, let's dispel what a cover letter is not. It's not a place for you to scream how passionate you are about the job you want. Nor is it you just listing your entire r\u00e9sum\u00e9, in prose format. A cover letter is this: the story of how you crush it in the workplace, proving that the company should hire you because of your badassery. That's it. If your cover letter isn't doing this, then you're doing it wrong. You do these things by showing your talents instead of telling about them. This is the most important thing you can learn about writing to impress, so I'll give you a few examples: Those first two, I am merely telling you a fact about myself. I'm just saying I am a strong listener \u2014whatever that means \u2014 and I regularly work hard. I don't offer any examples; I don't prove these statements with any explanation. RELATED: 7 Questions to Help You Decide if a Job Is Right for You In the third example, I'm not telling you I'm a good listener or a hard worker. Instead, I give a quick anecdote. My boss asked me to do something, I did it, taking notes from others, and then the project was not only successful, but we got paid more, too. What have we learned from this anecdote? I'm a hard worker (I had only two days to do the project), I'm a good listener (I got notes from coworkers and incorporated them into the project), and, most importantly, I get results (the sales pitch was a success and we made even more money than usual #humblebrag). That's what your cover letter should be. You are proving, repeatedly, that you are a badass who gets results. You are showing your badassery through simple stories, which you can use to list your past jobs and accomplishments, showing you'd be a great fit for the company you're applying for. You also want to show that these past skills, whatever they may be, will transition to this new job. More than anything else, the people hiring you care about how you're going to help them get what they need done. RELATED: Give it a Whirl: 6 Ways to Test Drive a Potential Career Path A great cover letter has six basic paragraphs. You've got your Opening Anecdote, your Gimme the Job, your Bing, your Bang, your Bongo, and then your Closing Suck-Up. Excerpted from ADULTHOOD FOR BEGINNERS: All the Life Secrets Nobody Bothered to Tell You by Andy Boyle with the permission of TarcherPerigee, an imprint of Penguin Random House LLC. Copyright \u00a9 2017 by Andy Boyle."}