{"title": "Trump Nominee Jovita Carranza Would Be 7th Latina US Treasurer - NBC News", "time": "May 2 2017, 6:20 pm ET", "text": "President Donald Trump's nomination of Jovita Carranza for U.S. treasurer would put a Latina in a spot that has been held by six other Latinas, all since the Nixon administration. Carranza had been considered for the Cabinet position of U.S. trade representative, but that nomination went to Robert Lighthizer. Should she be confirmed, Carranza's signature would be on Americans' paper money. She also would oversee the U.S. Mint, Bureau of Engraving and Fort Knox. She'd also serve as a liaison to the Federal Reserve. Her confirmation would continue a trend of presidents filling the position with a Latina. She'd be the fourth in a row to hold the job and the seventh overall. Other Latinas' whose signatures have been on American currency are: Romana Acosta Ba\u00f1uelos, a Nixon appointee; Katherine Davalos Ortega, appointed by Ronald Reagan and then by George H.W. Bush; Catalina Vasquez Villalpando, George H.W. Bush appointee; Rosario Marin, George W. Bush; Anna Escobedo Cabral, George W. Bush and Rosie Rios, appointed by Obama. \"She'll be a spokesperson for the administration, especially on issues involving the Treasury, tax reform and other issues that affect our economy,\" said Hector Barreto, who headed the Small Business Administration under George W. Bush. Barreto now heads the Latino Coalition, a business group. \"It's a great opportunity for her to get back in government and she is someone who backed (Trump's) campaign.\" Carranza declined a request for comment made by NBC News through the Latino Coalition. Generally, administration nominees withhold comment until confirmation. Carranza served as deputy administrator at the Small Business Administration under former President George W. Bush. She also was the highest ranking Latina in the history of United Parcel Service when she served as its vice president of air operations and president of operations for Latin America and the Caribbean, according to a GOP profile. A consultant with The JCR Group in Skokie, Illinois, Carranza has been part of Trump's National Hispanic Advisory Council, a group that lost many of its initial members after Trump delivered a harsh immigration enforcement speech in Arizona during the election campaign. But Carranza remained in his camp and helped host a Latino inaugural celebration for him. The job is not a Cabinet position. Trump's lone Latino nominee for his Cabinet, Alex Acosta, was confirmed by the Senate last Thursday. Barreto said while Latinos are not being seen in the administration's most visible spots,there is potential for more Latinos in sub-Cabinet level positions and other administration jobs. He said Bush hired hundreds of Latinos in key staff and White House positions that aren't as well known. However, he acknowledged that the Trump administration is behind in its appointments. \"I know a lot of Latinos who are still interested in serving in the administration,\" Barreto said. Hector Sanchez, chair of the National Hispanic Leadership Agenda, said Trump has a way to go in making Latinos feel they are well represented in his administration. \"So far Trump is the worst when it comes to inclusion and diversity overall, but in particular when it comes to Latinos,\" Sanchez said.", "url": "http://www.nbcnews.com/news/latino/trump-nominee-jovita-carranza-would-be-7th-latina-us-treasurer-n754081", "source": "NBC"}