{"title": "Chechnya\u2019s Crackdown on Gays", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/24/opinion/chechnyas-crackdown-on-gays.html", "updated_date": "2017-04-24T04:41:30-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "section": "Opinion", "published_date": "2017-04-23T20:00:00-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-24T04:41:30-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "material_type_facet": "Editorial", "text": "The first reports about the arbitrary detention and possible extrajudicial killings of men suspected of being gay in Chechnya were bloodcurdling. The authorities began rounding up men after activists had sought permission to hold gay pride parades in other parts of the North Caucasus region, which is predominantly Muslim, according to a newspaper report and activists. At least three turned up dead. Some people reported being tortured. Then came the baffling denial. \u201cIf such people existed in Chechnya, law enforcement would not have to worry about them, as their own relatives would have sent them to where they could never return,\u201d Alvi Karimov, a spokesman for the Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov, told the Russian news agency Interfax. This abominable crime by a Russian republic and its reprehensible cover-up warrant a strong response from Moscow and the international community. That would be a stretch for the Russian government, which is denying that there is evidence of any crimes and has sought to keep its own gay population invisible. In 2013, it enacted a so-called anti-propaganda law that criminalizes promoting or celebrating non-straight conduct and identity \u2014 while government officials claimed that all Russians were entitled to protection from discrimination and violence. Moscow\u2019s \u201creaction to the allegations of systematic human rights violations against gay men in Chechnya constitutes a litmus test on whether this rhetoric was disingenuous,\u201d said Fabrice Houdart, a human rights expert at the United Nations who specializes in issues of sexual orientation and gender identity. Moreover, it should force a debate about how that kind of out-of-sight, out-of-mind approach contributes to the stigmatization and victimization of vulnerable communities. Gay and transgender people have gained societal acceptance and legal rights in several countries over the past two decades by demanding to be seen and heard. The Russian government persists in forcing its gay citizens to remain largely underground. Moscow is unlikely to take meaningful action against Chechnya, or to rethink its broader policy toward gay rights, in the absence of strong and sustained international pressure. In recent years several countries from the Americas and Europe have promoted equality for gay and transgender people as universal human rights. The Obama administration, and in particular former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, deserves much credit for making this a diplomatic priority. The crimes in Chechnya have presented the Trump administration with its first major test on this issue on the international stage. Last Monday, Nikki Haley, the American ambassador to the United Nations, issued a strong statement calling for a prompt investigation and accountability for the culprits. \u201cWe are against all forms of discrimination, including against people based on sexual orientation,\u201d Ms. Haley said. \u201cWhen left unchecked, discrimination and human rights abuses can lead to destabilization and conflict.\u201d It would be encouraging to see Ms. Haley take on this cause with as much passion and perseverance as her predecessor, Samantha Power. Without American leadership, forging a global consensus that gay rights are human rights will take longer. Time is not on the side of gay people living in terror in places like Chechnya.", "abstract": "Abominable crimes and a bizarre denial by the government call out for a strong and sustained international response."}