{"title": "Climate Change Reroutes a Yukon River in a Geological Instant", "abstract": "Melting water from one of Canada\u2019s largest glaciers used to flow north, to the Bering Sea. Last spring, it reversed course, a case of what scientists call \u201criver piracy.\u201d", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/17/science/climate-change-glacier-yukon-river.html", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "section": "Science", "created_date": "2017-04-17T11:00:20-04:00", "published_date": "2017-04-16T20:00:00-04:00", "updated_date": "2017-04-17T11:47:57-04:00", "text": "In the blink of a geological eye, climate change has helped reverse the flow of water melting from a glacier in Canada\u2019s Yukon, a hijacking that scientists call \u201criver piracy.\u201d This engaging term refers to one river capturing and diverting the flow of another. It occurred last spring at the Kaskawulsh Glacier, one of Canada\u2019s largest, with a suddenness that startled scientists. Much of the meltwater from the glacier normally flows to the north into the Bering Sea via the Slims and Yukon Rivers. A rapidly retreating and thinning glacier \u2014 accelerated by global warming \u2014 caused the water to redirect to the south, and into the Pacific Ocean. Last year\u2019s unusually warm spring produced melting waters that cut a canyon through the ice, diverting more water into the Alsek River, which flows to the south and on into Pacific, robbing the headwaters to the north. The scientists concluded that the river theft \u201cis likely to be permanent.\u201d Daniel Shugar, an assistant professor of geoscience at the University of Washington-Tacoma and colleagues described the phenomenon in a paper published on Monday in the journal Nature Geoscience. River piracy has been identified since the 19th century by geologists, and has generally been associated with events such as tectonic shifts and erosion occurring thousands or even millions of years ago. Those earlier episodes of glacial retreat left evidence of numerous abandoned river valleys, identified through the geological record. In finding what appears to be the first example of river piracy observed in modern times, Professor Shugar and colleagues used more recent technology, including drones, to survey the landscape and monitor the changes in the water coursing away from the Kaskawulsh Glacier. The phenomenon is unlikely to occur so dramatically elsewhere, Professor Shugar said in a telephone interview, because the glacier itself was forming a high point in the landscape and serving as a drainage divide for water to flow one way or another. As climate change causes more glaciers to melt, however, he said \u201cwe may see differences in the river networks and where rivers decide to go.\u201d Changes in the flow of rivers can have enormous consequences for the landscape and ecosystems of the affected areas, as well as water supplies. When the shift abruptly reduced water levels in Kluane Lake, the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation reported, it left docks for lakeside vacation cabins \u2014 which can be reached only by water \u2014 high and dry. The riverbed of the Slims River basin, now nearly dry, experienced frequent and extensive afternoon dust storms through the spring and summer of last year, the paper stated. The impacts of climate change, like sea level rise or the shrinkage of a major glacier, are generally measured over decades, not months as in this case. \u201cIt\u2019s not something you could see if you were just standing on the beach for a couple of months,\u201d Professor Shugar said. The researchers concluded that the rerouted flow from the glacier shows that \u201cradical reorganizations of drainage can occur in a geologic instant, although they may also be driven by longer-term climate change.\u201d Or, as a writer for the CBC put it in a story about the phenomenon last year, \u201cIt\u2019s a reminder that glacier-caused change is not always glacial-paced.\u201d The underlying message of the new research is clear, said Dr. Shugar in a telephone interview. \u201cWe may be surprised by what climate change has in store for us \u2014 and some of the effects might be much more rapid than we are expecting.\u201d The Nature Geoscience paper is accompanied by an essay from Rachel M. Headley, an assistant professor of geoscience and glacier expert at the University of Wisconsin-Parkside who has studied river piracy incidents from thousands and even millions of years ago. \u201cThat the authors were able to capture this type of event almost as it was happening is significant in and of itself,\u201d she said in an interview via email. As for the deeper significance of the incident, she said, \u201cWhile one remote glacial river changing its course in the Yukon might not seem like a particularly big deal, glacier melt is a source of water for many people, and the sediments and nutrients that glacier rivers carry can influence onshore and offshore ecological environments, as well as agriculture.\u201d Her article in Nature Geoscience concludes that this \u201cunique impact of climate change\u201d could have broad consequences. \u201cAs the world warms and more glaciers melt, populations dependent upon glacial meltwater should pay special attention to these processes.\u201d Another glacier expert not involved in the research, Brian Menounos of the University of Northern British Columbia, said that while glaciers have waxed and waned as a result of natural forces over the eons, the new paper and his own research underscore the fact that the recent large-scale retreat of glaciers shows humans and the greenhouse gases they produce are reshaping the planet. \u201cClearly, we\u2019re implicated in many of those changes,\u201d he said."}