{"section": "Business Day", "source": "The New York Times", "abstract": "Officials said the proposal, pending from the Obama administration, cited Exxon\u2019s potential loss of Black Sea exploration rights to European rivals.", "updated_date": "2017-04-19T16:21:55-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/19/business/energy-environment/exxon-mobil-russia-sanctions-waiver-oil.html", "title": "Exxon Mobil Seeks U.S. Sanctions Waiver for Oil Project in Russia", "published_date": "2017-04-18T20:00:00-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-19T15:44:46-04:00", "text": "HOUSTON \u2014 Exxon Mobil is pursuing a waiver from Treasury Department sanctions on Russia so it may drill in the Black Sea in a venture with the Russian state oil company Rosneft, a former State Department official said Wednesday. An oil industry official confirmed the account. The waiver application was made under the Obama administration, the officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity, and the company has not dropped the proposal. The proposal is now before the Trump administration at a delicate time in Russian-American relations, with rising tensions over the war in Syria and a looming congressional inquiry into reports of Russian efforts to influence the United States presidential election. The appeal did not come up during Senate confirmation hearings of Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, who was Exxon Mobil\u2019s chief executive before his appointment by President Trump and was known to have a strong working relationship with the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin. At the time, Mr. Tillerson and other company officials said they had not lobbied against the sanctions, which were imposed on Russia for its military intervention in Ukraine. But Mr. Tillerson and company officials did note that Exxon Mobil had received a waiver to complete drilling an exploration well in Russia\u2019s Arctic waters. Company officials also disclosed that they had urged Obama administration officials to make American sanctions consistent with European Union sanctions, which gave greater latitude to European companies to continue taking part in some Russian projects. The Exxon Mobil waiver request for the Black Sea was first reported Wednesday by The Wall Street Journal. Asked about the waiver application, Alan Jeffers, an Exxon Mobil spokesman, said, \u201cWe don\u2019t comment on ongoing issues.\u201d A Treasury representative said the department would not comment on individual licenses or waiver requests. The oil industry official said that the application was made in 2015, with Exxon Mobil arguing that it could lose its contractual exploration rights in the Black Sea if it did not begin drilling operations by the end of 2017. European companies, particularly Eni, the Italian giant, could then pick up the work. The Russian news media quoted Zeljko Runje, Rosneft\u2019s vice president for offshore projects, saying last June: \u201cWe are going to drill with Eni. That is our plan. On the Black Sea.\u201d Environmentalists were quick to criticize the proposed waiver. \u201cRemoving barriers to Exxon drilling in the Russian Black Sea with a state-controlled company like Rosneft would not only jeopardize global progress on climate change and provide momentum for a similar waiver in the Russian Arctic,\u201d said Naomi Ages, a spokeswoman for the Greenpeace. \u201cIt would also send a message to Russia that it can intervene in any country, including the United States, with no consequences.\u201d", "material_type_facet": "News", "item_type": "Article"}