{"created_date": "2017-04-24T09:48:11-04:00", "updated_date": "2017-04-24T09:48:11-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "title": "Marine Le Pen Denounces Efforts to Block Her Bid for French Presidency", "material_type_facet": "News", "text": "PARIS \u2014 A day after mainstream parties were dealt a heavy defeat in the French presidential elections, the far-right leader Marine Le Pen, one of the two candidates to advance to a runoff, condemned their calls to unite against her and to support her rival, the independent centrist Emmanuel Macron. In light of the success of Ms. Le Pen, a strong anti-immigrant voice who opposes the European Union, the mainstream parties on the center-left and center-right are hoping they can avert a political earthquake when she faces off on May 7 against Mr. Macron, who finished first and is seen as a strong favorite. \u201cIn this troubled period, the hand of the Socialists cannot tremble\u201d said Jean-Christophe Cambad\u00e9lis, the head of the party, at a news conference in Paris. \u201cMarine Le Pen president, never.\u201d Only one major candidate has resisted the calls to unite against Ms. Le Pen after the election on Sunday: Jean-Luc M\u00e9lenchon, the firebrand hard-left candidate who came in fourth and who has pointedly refused to support Mr. Macron, saying instead that he would seek the opinion of his supporters through his website. Stock markets opened higher on Monday across Europe, a sign that investors were relieved by Mr. Macron\u2019s strong showing. Ms. Le Pen wants France to leave the euro currency zone, a prospect that created mounting unease on international markets in the prelude to the first round of voting. Few analysts say they expect Ms. Le Pen to win in the second round. Polls published on Monday showed that about 60 percent of voters supported Mr. Macron, compared with less than 40 percent for Ms. Le Pen. A live televised debate between Ms. Le Pen and Mr. Macron is set for May 3. On Monday, Ms. Le Pen continued to stress the anti-immigrant and anti-globalization views that propelled her into the second round, and she denounced the efforts by the mainstream parties to keep her out of the presidency \u2014 an attitude known in France as the \u201cRepublican Front.\u201d \u201cThe old and completely rotten Republican Front, which no one wants, and which the French have pushed away with exceptional violence, is trying to coalesce around Mr. Macron,\u201d Ms. Le Pen said in Rouvroy, a town in the deindustrialized north of France where her  message tends to resonate well with voters. Ms. Le Pen also called Mr. Macron \u201cweak\u201d on terrorism, an issue that burst into the campaign spotlight just days before the first round of voting, when a police officer was killed by a gunman on the Champs-\u00c9lys\u00e9es, in central Paris. Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the current French president, is scheduled to pay tribute to the fallen  officer at a ceremony on Tuesday. The French presidency said that Mr. Macron and Ms. Le Pen had been invited to the ceremony, and both were expected to attend. Mr. Macron, who has never held elective office, came in first among the 11 candidates, with 23.75 percent of the vote in the first round. Ms. Le Pen was second, with 21.53 percent, according to final results tallied on Monday by the Interior Ministry. Fran\u00e7ois Fillon, the center-right candidate who was once seen as the front-runner before he was hit with a scandal involving public funds paid to his family, finished third at 19.91 percent. He was followed by Mr. M\u00e9lenchon at 19.64 percent, and the Socialist candidate, Beno\u00eet Hamon, at 6.35 percent. The mainstream parties were left struggling to pick up the pieces after their poor showing. On the right, many were quick to blame the loss on their candidate, Mr. Fillon, who refused to drop out of the race after the embezzlement scandal. Top officials of Mr. Fillon\u2019s center-right Republican party were scheduled to meet on Monday in Paris to set the party line, but many prominent politicians had, with varying degrees of enthusiasm, already called on Sunday for voters to support Mr. Macron. Both the Socialists and the Republicans will now be looking ahead to the legislative elections in June, when French voters will elect the members of the National Assembly, France\u2019s lower and more powerful house of Parliament. Although Mr. Macron is seen as an overwhelming favorite in the second round of the presidential election, he was warned not to take victory for granted and \u2014 after he spent Monday night with supporters at a chic restaurant in the wealthy Sixth Arrondissement of Paris \u2014 not to celebrate too much, too soon. Mr. Macron had to avoid making \u201cthe same mistake as Hillary Clinton,\u201d the newspaper Le Monde wrote in an editorial on Monday, arguing that Mrs. Clinton had not sufficiently addressed the popularity of her opponent Bernie Sanders in the primaries. In its editorial, Le Monde wrote that Mr. Macron needed to be wary of high abstention in the second round, especially by voters on the left who had helped Mr. M\u00e9lenchon surge late in the campaign. \u201cEmmanuel Macron has less than 15 days to show all of these reluctant voters that he has assessed the scale of the shock undergone by the French political system,\u201d the newspaper wrote.", "published_date": "2017-04-23T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "World", "abstract": "The leader of the far-right National Front condemned calls to unite against her and to support her rival, the independent centrist Emmanuel Macron.", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/24/world/europe/french-election-macron-le-pen.html", "source": "The New York Times"}