{"text": "Twitter on Wednesday briefly suspended the account of a Chinese-born billionaire who was using the social media service to publicize allegations of corruption against top Communist Party officials. The billionaire, Guo Wengui, also known as Miles Kwok, had in recent days added tens of thousands of followers to his account, @KwokMiles, where he posted screenshots of documents that he said suggested corruption at the highest levels of the Chinese government. China, where Twitter has a minimal presence and is blocked by the authorities, considers Mr. Guo to be a criminal. A Chinese official said last week that Interpol, the global police organization, had issued a global request for his arrest. Nicholas Pacilio, a spokesman for Twitter, declined to comment. Mr. Guo\u2019s account was apparently suspended for about four hours before it was restored after inquiries from members of the news media. Twitter normally suspends accounts if they are deemed to be sending out spam, if they appear to have been \u201chacked or compromised\u201d or if they engage in \u201cabusive behavior,\u201d according to the company\u2019s website. Twitter considers the posting of private information, like identification numbers, without the consent of those involved to be abusive behavior. In recent days, Mr. Guo had posted two screenshots that contained the Chinese national identification numbers of several people. When his account was restored, those screenshots had been removed. In recent days, Mr. Guo was in New York. He has said publicly that he does not have a Chinese passport. The suspension of his Twitter account came days after his Facebook account was suspended in what the company called a mistake. Mr. Guo has done business with family members of top Communist Party officials, and he had a close working relationship with one of China\u2019s top spies. His recent public denunciations appear to have alarmed Beijing. On April 19, Mr. Guo appeared in a televised interview with Voice of America\u2019s Chinese-language service, during which he accused one of China\u2019s most senior leaders of corruption. China summoned Voice of America\u2019s Beijing reporter to the Foreign Ministry and contacted it in Washington through its embassy, urging the news service, which is part of the United States government but is run independently, to cancel the interview. Mr. Guo did not respond to a request for comment.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/26/world/asia/guo-wengui-chinese-billionaire-twitter.html", "published_date": "2017-04-25T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "World", "updated_date": "2017-04-26T22:06:56-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-26T22:06:56-04:00", "abstract": "Guo Wengui, an outspoken Chinese-born billionaire whom China views as a criminal, has alarmed Beijing with his public denunciations.", "title": "He Tweeted About Chinese Government Corruption. Twitter Suspended His Account."}