{"section": "U.S.", "item_type": "Article", "published_date": "2017-04-19T20:00:00-04:00", "material_type_facet": "News", "source": "The New York Times", "created_date": "2017-04-20T21:25:40-04:00", "text": "WASHINGTON \u2014 The Justice Department is weighing anew whether to charge Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, for his role in the disclosure of highly classified information that the United States government claims has harmed national security and diplomatic relations, a law enforcement official said. The debate among prosecutors, which the official described as vigorous, is being fueled by Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who said at a news conference Thursday that arresting Mr. Assange was a priority for the Justice Department. The official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the details of the discussions remain secret, said senior Justice Department officials had been pressuring prosecutors in the Eastern District of Virginia to outline an array of possible charges against Mr. Assange. But the official said prosecutors remained skeptical that they could pursue the most serious charges, of espionage, with regard to the documents that Mr. Assange disclosed years ago with the help of an Army intelligence analyst, Chelsea Manning. Ms. Manning was convicted and sent to prison, but President Barack Obama commuted her sentence in January. A lesser charge could be theft of government documents, but the official said prosecutors wanted, ideally, to pursue more serious counts against Mr. Assange, who has sought refuge in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London since 2012 to avoid extradition to Sweden on accusations of rape. A Justice Department spokeswoman declined to comment on Thursday. The discussion of charging Mr. Assange was first reported by The Washington Post. Mr. Assange has repeatedly said he is a journalist whose work is no different from that of major news organizations. This claim could complicate a prosecution and put the Justice Department at serious odds with the news media, which also seeks to obtain and publish government secrets. Any charges would also highlight the embarrassing fact that President Trump praised WikiLeaks during the 2016 presidential campaign for publishing prominent Democrats\u2019 emails, which had been hacked by Russian intelligence. And even if the Justice Department decides to charge Mr. Assange, arresting him and bringing him to the United States to stand trial will be difficult. Last month, WikiLeaks released a trove of highly classified C.I.A. documents that described sophisticated software tools and techniques to break into electronics like computers and smartphones. The disclosure of those documents, and others, was said to infuriate C.I.A. officials and put pressure on the Justice Department to prosecute Mr. Assange. Mr. Sessions is not the first Trump administration official to go after Mr. Assange publicly in recent days, signaling that the White House intends to take a hard line against leakers. Last week, the C.I.A. director, Mike Pompeo, said that \u201cWikiLeaks walks like a hostile intelligence service and talks like a hostile intelligence service.\u201d But, like the president who appointed him, he applauded the disclosures of WikiLeaks when they benefited Mr. Trump during the campaign. Officials have said that the F.B.I. supports prosecuting Mr. Assange. Several years ago, the agency sent a series of documents to the Justice Department outlining charges that investigators claimed to have evidence to support. At the time, F.B.I. counterintelligence agents believed that charging Mr. Assange would deter him from posting new troves of American documents. The Justice Department, then run by Obama appointees, declined to move forward.", "abstract": "A debate among United States prosecutors is being led by Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who said that arresting Mr. Assange was a priority.", "updated_date": "2017-04-20T22:27:53-04:00", "title": "Justice Department Weighs Charges Against Julian Assange", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/20/us/politics/justice-department-weighs-charges-against-julian-assange.html"}