{"text": "STRASBOURG, France \u2014 Marine Le Pen, the far-right leader trying to become president of France, already has a day job as a lawmaker in the European Parliament, a position she regards with open contempt. She misses votes, mocks the process and cheers for the demise of the European Union. Even so, Ms. Le Pen is willing to accept a salary of 101,808 euros (about $110,000), a generous per diem and an annual staff and office budget in excess of \u20ac340,000. In February, the Parliament halved her compensation after fraud investigators concluded that she had wrongly diverted money to pay for National Front party activities in France. The scandal, which has not fazed Ms. Le Pen\u2019s supporters in France, is another example of how Europe\u2019s right-wing parties happily provoke populist fury by attacking the European Union \u2014 yet also happily pocket government salaries and other benefits. For some far-right politicians, a perch in the European Parliament can mean a lucrative sinecure, easy news media exposure and immunity from criminal prosecution at home. \u201cWe are in a totally schizophrenic situation,\u201d said Franck Proust, the leader of France\u2019s center-right Republicans in the Parliament. \u201cEurope should not have to finance people who instead of working spend their time destroying their source of funding.\u201d For decades, Ms. Le Pen\u2019s National Front and other parties on Europe\u2019s far right have drawn a strange legitimacy by winning seats in the European Parliament. They blame European institutions for being onerous bureaucracies and lacking democratic accountability even as they enjoy the perks of office and generally shun the daily grind of legislative work. Winning seats in the European Parliament is often easier for them than winning at home, because turnout is anemic, boosting the chances for well-organized protest candidates. The National Front, with more than 20 lawmakers including Ms. Le Pen and her father, Jean-Marie Le Pen, has the largest bloc of French representatives in the European assembly \u2014 even though it holds just two seats in the French National Assembly. In 2014, anti-European fringe parties had their strongest-ever showing in European elections, and far-right lawmakers from those parties now hold about 10 percent of the 751 seats in the European Parliament. The U.K. Independence Party, which has no lawmakers in the British Parliament, has 20 seats in the European Parliament, including the party\u2019s former leader, Nigel Farage. European institutions in Brussels are routinely criticized for lacking democratic accountability. The European Parliament, whose members are directly elected, is supposed to be the answer to that complaint. But anti-Europe lawmakers instead often use the Parliament, based in Strasbourg, France, to attack the European Union. The overall expenses of salaries, benefits and other funds for far-right Euroskeptic lawmakers and their staffs cost European Union taxpayers about \u20ac55 million this year, according to Thilo Janssen, a political scientist who has studied the far right and who advises a left-wing lawmaker in Parliament. Even more ironic, the Parliament provides a platform for these lawmakers to network and coordinate their anti-Europe efforts \u2014 and to get paid for it. They have formed political groups, the main organizational units of Parliament, which allow them to qualify for an array of privileges. Ms. Le Pen, for example, is co-president of the Europe of Nations and Freedom Group, founded in 2015, along with Marcel de Graaff, a Dutch right-wing lawmaker. The group billed for \u20ac1.6 million during its first year for staff and activities. Mr. de Graaff, a fiery ally of the Dutch far-right leader Geert Wilders, has argued that unauthorized migrants have carried out mass rapes and warned that \u201cwe must stop the invasion\u201d of Islam in Europe. \u201cMore and more people see through the lies of the E.U. establishment and are joining the patriots,\u201d he told colleagues during a recent address on the floor of Parliament. \u201cThe E.U.\u2019s end is approaching.\u201d Two years ago, when Ms. Le Pen was absent for some votes, Mr. de Graaff covered for her, casting her ballots. She later praised his \u201cchivalrous spirit.\u201d Other lawmakers were less amused. Mr. de Graaff was fined \u20ac1,530. \u201cUnsurpassed insolence,\u201d Manfred Weber, a powerful conservative German member of the European Parliament, said, miffed at the time. Yet Mr. de Graaff and others mostly shrug off the criticism. Mr. Farage, who helped lead the \u201cBrexit\u201d campaign for Britain to leave the European Union, soaks up free media attention by giving strident, anti-Europe speeches. Mr. Farage leads another Euroskeptic bloc in Parliament, Europe of Freedom and Direct Democracy, and that bloc in turn shares many members with a party called the Alliance for Direct Democracy in Europe. In November, Parliament ordered that party to repay \u20ac172,655. The money was supposed to help lawmakers compete in European elections and \u201ccontribute to forming a European awareness.\u201d But the U.K. Independence Party used it instead to conduct opinion polls on Brexit, officials found. (The alliance\u2019s executive director said the audit procedure was \u201cbiased\u201d and aimed at \u201csilencing\u201d critics of European integration.) Neither Mr. de Graaff nor Ms. Le Pen responded to requests for comment. But one Le Pen ally, Jean-Luc Schaffhauser, who helped the National Front secure a loan from a Russian-linked bank but is not himself a member of the party, said he believed that fraud investigators were unfairly singling out right-wing parties for scrutiny. Other lawmakers fume at the antics of the far right, but have little recourse. Far-right members are \u201chollowing out the whole structure from within, and it\u2019s like tooth decay,\u201d said Esther de Lange, a lawmaker with the Christian Democratic Appeal, a center-right Dutch party. \u201cAre you going to wait until the whole thing falls out, or do you actually come up with a solution?\u201d Prominent members like Mr. Weber want to block funding for anti-European parties \u2014 including the Alliance for Peace and Freedom, which has three representatives from Greece\u2019s neo-fascist Golden Dawn and one from the neo-Nazi National Democratic Party of Germany in Parliament. That entitled the party to nearly \u20ac400,000 last year. Mr. Weber acknowledged last month that nothing could be done to turn off the money spigot immediately, partly because the rules need to be tightened. There also are concerns about freedom of speech. \u201cYou want to gag us, basically,\u201d Georg Mayer, an Austrian member of Mr. de Graaff\u2019s and Ms. Le Pen\u2019s bloc, told lawmakers recently. \u201cI don\u2019t like that reading of democracy.\u201d Ms. Le Pen, for one, has benefited from leading one of the far-right blocs. It entitles her to a prominent placement on the parliamentary benches and choice speaking slots. Eighteen months ago, when President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande of France and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany tried to rally support for migration policies on the floor of Parliament, Ms. Le Pen rose to give a stinging, and widely publicized, rebuke. She belittled Mr. Hollande as a German puppet, the \u201cadministrator of the province of France.\u201d Her rant, which evoked the Nazi occupation of France during World War II, has been watched at least a half-million times on YouTube. When he visited the Parliament in February, Justin Trudeau, the Canadian prime minister, did not have lunch with the heads of the political blocs \u2014 to avoid encountering Ms. Le Pen, officials speculated at the time. A number of far-right lawmakers skipped Mr. Trudeau\u2019s speech. Many also joined a boycott in December, when two young Iraqi women who had escaped sexual slavery by the Islamic State were honored with the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought, the European Union\u2019s top human rights award. The boycott infuriated Anthony L. Gardner, who was the United States ambassador to the European Union until January and was present for the occasion. \u201cThey tried to turn a deeply moving ceremony about how these girls had survived unimaginable things into a political event,\u201d he said in an interview. \u201cIt was shameful behavior for them not to be there.\u201d Meanwhile, Ms. Le Pen has also enjoyed another privilege of being a European parliamentarian \u2014 diplomatic immunity. Last month, French prosecutors persuaded European lawmakers to lift her immunity in a criminal investigation into images she shared on Twitter that showed brutal acts by the Islamic State. (Dissemination of violent images is a crime in France.) On Wednesday, they began a process that could lead to her losing immunity in another French case, concerning alleged abuse of European Union funds to pay for party assistants. Lawmakers are still considering yet another French request to lift her immunity, in a case of alleged defamation against a former mayor of Nice. But for now, Ms. Le Pen continues to receive legal protection from a European Parliament she wants to bring down.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/27/world/europe/marine-le-pen-european-parliament.html", "published_date": "2017-04-26T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "World", "updated_date": "2017-04-27T00:01:19-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-27T00:01:19-04:00", "abstract": "For right-wing lawmakers who attack the European Union, a perch in Parliament can mean a lucrative sinecure, easy news media exposure and immunity from criminal prosecution at home.", "title": "Far-Right Leaders Loathe the European Parliament, but Love Its Checks"}