{"text": "Nashville \u2014 Two years ago, a day before the baby bluebirds were due to hatch, I checked the nest box just outside my office window and found a tiny hole in one of the eggs. Believing it must be the beginnings of a hatching, I resolved not to check again right away, though the itch to peek was nearly unbearable: I\u2019d been waiting years for a family of bluebirds to take up residence, and finally an egg was about to shudder and pop open. Two days later, I realized I hadn\u2019t seen either parent in some time, so I checked again and found all five eggs missing. The nest was undisturbed. The cycle of life might as well be called the cycle of death: everything that lives will die, and everything that dies will be eaten. Bluebirds eat insects; snakes eat bluebirds; hawks eat snakes; owls eat hawks. That\u2019s how wildness works, and I know it, but I was heartbroken anyway. Just in case the pair returned for a second try, I called the North American Bluebird Society for advice. The guy who answered the helpline thought perhaps my bluebirds \u2014 not \u201cmine,\u201d of course, but the bluebirds I loved \u2014 had been attacked by both a house wren and a snake. House wrens are furiously territorial and will try to disrupt nesting by any birds nearby. They fill unused nest holes with sticks to prevent competitors from settling there; they destroy unprotected nests and pierce all the eggs; they have been known to kill nestlings and even brooding females. Snakes simply swallow the eggs whole, slowly and gently, leaving behind an intact nest. The bluebird expert recommended that I install a wider snake baffle on the mounting pole and clear out some brush that might be harboring wrens. If the bluebirds return, he said, I should install a wren guard over the hole as soon as the first egg appears: parents aren\u2019t likely to abandon an egg, and disguising the nest hole with a cover might keep wrens from noticing it. I bought a new baffle, but the bluebirds never came back. Last year a different pair took up residence. After the first egg appeared, I went to the local bird-supply store and asked for help choosing a wren guard, but the store doesn\u2019t stock them \u2014 house wrens don\u2019t nest in Middle Tennessee, the owner told me confidently. I know they aren\u2019t supposed to nest here, I said, but listen to what happened last year. He scoffed. Possibly a migrating wren had noticed the nest and made a desultory effort to destroy it, but there are no house wrens nesting in Middle Tennessee; he was sure of it. All four bluebird eggs hatched that year, and all four bluebird babies safely fledged, so I figured he must know this region better than the folks at the bluebird society, and I gave no more thought to wren guards. This year there have been no bluebirds. Very early in February, long before nesting season, a male spent a few minutes investigating the box, but he never returned with a female. Even the chickadees, which nest early and have always liked our bluebird box, settled for the smaller nest box under the eaves near the back door. The bluebird box sat empty. Then I started to hear the unmistakable sound of a house wren calling for a mate, and suddenly I understood: a bully had arrived on the playground. Desperately, the little wren would call and call and then spend time filling the box with sticks, building an elaborate scaffolding surrounding a deep tunnel running across the top of the box and down to its very floor. Day after day for weeks: singing, sticks, singing, sticks. The yard outside my office was his exclusive domain: no longer did the chickadees visit the mealworm feeder on that side of the house; the goldfinches abandoned the thistle feeder hanging in the window; only the largest birds dared drink from the birdbath. I set another dish of water on the other side of the house because we\u2019ve had so little rain. Meanwhile, the chickadees hatched out a magnificent brood of babies. Their little voices were full and strong, and their parents toiled from sunup till dark feeding them. They fledged right on schedule. But when I took the box down for cleaning, I found one fully feathered baby, probably only minutes from fledging. It was dead from a puncture wound to the head. It\u2019s one thing to recognize the blood bath that is the natural world and a different thing entirely to participate in it: There\u2019s nothing \u201cnatural\u201d about offering wild birds food and water and housing in an area where human beings have destroyed their natural nesting sites and food sources. And with that invitation comes an obligation to protect and defend the creatures that accept it. Even before I found the dead chick, I had made up my mind to take down my nest boxes in the fall both to discourage the wren from returning and to keep from attracting other native cavity dwellers \u2014 tufted titmice, Carolina wrens \u2014 to house-wren territory. Thing is, I love the little brown wrens, too. Their courtship song is one of the most beautiful in the world: it\u2019s like a high, thin river made of musical notes tumbling and rushing and cascading downstream. And it\u2019s impossible to fault them for doing only what millions of years of evolution have taught them to do, in their impossibly tiny fierceness, to survive a world of high winds and pelting rains and predators. To see that small brown bird lifting his throat to the sky and releasing that glorious sound into the world, again and again and again, day after day \u2014 how was it possible not to root for him, not to hope a mate would arrive, in this region where house wrens don\u2019t nest, to accept him and his offering of sticks? When a female finally joined him, I had to cheer. But the eggs of a house wren are vulnerable to heat, and it\u2019s been unendurably hot here for days \u2014 the temperature inside a nest box mounted in a sunny clearing can easily exceed the maximum temperature for a house-wren egg to remain viable. There were no sign of the wrens last week, and the goldfinches have returned to the thistle feeder.", "source": "The New York Times", "section": "Opinion", "created_date": "2017-04-18T10:59:13-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/31/opinion/sunday/red-in-beak-and-claw.html", "title": "Red in Beak and Claw", "item_type": "Article", "published_date": "2016-07-29T20:00:00-04:00", "material_type_facet": "Op-Ed", "abstract": "It\u2019s nesting season, and there\u2019s a blood bath near the birdbath.", "updated_date": "2017-04-18T11:01:05-04:00"}