{"text": "Federal officials are expected to argue in court starting Monday that a large hospital merger in the Chicago area could hurt consumers and should be stopped. It would be the latest in a series of efforts by regulators to push back against a wave of consolidation among major health care providers. But a frenzy of smaller transactions is also profoundly changing the landscape, many of which face little regulatory resistance. The deals are often for a couple of doctors here, or a hospital there, making them too small to attract much attention. But as those deals add up, they are creating groups that in some cases dominate local or regional markets. And they are raising questions about whether the gaze of antitrust officials is directed in the right place. \u201cThere\u2019s a lot of consolidation going on at a lot of levels,\u201d said Leemore S. Dafny, a former federal official who is a health economist at Northwestern University. She added, \u201cI don\u2019t think the antitrust laws are set up to stop it.\u201d Doctors and hospitals are making the calculation that bigger is definitely better. Consolidation, they say, helps them better coordinate care and manage patients, making care more effective and less expensive. Skeptics, however, say that the small combinations can eventually translate into higher costs. By gaining market share, they say, hospitals are able to charge more for their care and gain more influence about where patients are sent for lucrative services. Regulators, meanwhile, are left with limited information about the smaller deals, including answers about whether they diminish competition, leading to higher prices and lower-quality care. Dr. Farzad Mostashari, a former health official in the Obama administration, describes what is taking place as \u201ccreeping consolidation\u201d \u2014 being done at a pace that keeps it away from prying eyes. \u201cIf you move slowly enough, maybe nobody will notice,\u201d he said. Many of the smaller deals go unreported, leaving any tally of them incomplete. But at least 940 health care service transactions took place last year, up from about 480 in 2010, according to Irving Levin Associates, a research firm. This mix of deals, which involved groups like physician practices, hospitals and nursing homes, totaled some $175 billion. Because of the consolidation, patients are more likely to be getting care from providers with formal ties to one another. The doctor who is employed by a hospital, for example, may send a patient for a CT scan at a facility owned by the same hospital. Patients may be discouraged from going to a provider outside a given network, either by their insurer or their doctor. The combinations taking place include smaller hospital mergers, like one in Arizona in March, when two hospitals merged. The same month, Baptist Health, a small hospital group in Kentucky, said it planned to reach into Indiana to add another hospital. Neither of those deals has generated significant attention. The difference in regulatory attention is particularly stark in Illinois. The hospital deal in Chicago, between Advocate Health and NorthShore University HealthSystem, brings together two large systems, including hospitals and doctors\u2019 groups. It was announced in 2014 and involves more than 6,000 doctors. Advocate and NorthShore say they will promise not to raise their prices above inflation. They also say they plan to introduce a health plan that will be cheaper than comparable policies offered by the insurers in the market. But the deal is being opposed by the Federal Trade Commission in a case expected to start Monday at the United States District Court for Northern Illinois. \u201cThis merger is likely to significantly increase the combined system\u2019s bargaining power with health plans, which in turn will harm consumers by bringing about higher prices and lower quality,\u201d Deborah L. Feinstein, the director of the F.T.C.\u2019s competition bureau, said in a statement in December. The same sort of attention has not been paid to the growth of the state\u2019s largest independent physician group. The company, DuPage Medical Group, started as an eight-doctor practice in the Chicago suburbs in the 1960s and then combined with other practices. In the last five years, it has made about 16 deals and doubled in size to 500 doctors. Many of its acquisitions barely register \u2014 eight specialists last month, two small physician groups in February, a handful of doctors joining at a time. But it has been enough that DuPage now has ambitions of going national. Late last year, it teamed up with a private investment firm to provide it with $250 million for its goal. \u201cWe saw what was happening,\u201d said Michael A. Kasper, the chief executive of DuPage Medical Group. \u201cThere was going to be mass consolidation at the hospital and physician level.\u201d As a bigger organization, he said, DuPage has more leverage with area hospitals. \u201cThere\u2019s no question we have a higher degree of influence because of our size,\u201d he said. Several companies are also amassing doctors who specialize in fields like emergency medicine, trying to capture a sizable share of the physicians in that field and also expanding into related areas. In November, TeamHealth, which has about 16,000 doctors, bought IPC Healthcare, which specializes in care within the hospital, for $1.6 billion. Federal Trade Commission officials have traditionally focused on deals known as horizontal combinations, when large hospital groups or physician practices merge in a local market. Last year, the agency and Idaho\u2019s attorney general prevailed in a case against St. Luke\u2019s Health System in Boise for buying the state\u2019s largest independent multispecialty group because it would control too many doctors. The agency is also watching the addition of doctors into these big groups, Ms. Feinstein said. But making the legal case against so-called vertical combinations \u2014 when a hospital buys doctors\u2019 groups or expands into related areas like imaging or outpatient surgery \u2014 is not as straightforward. These deals, experts say, can benefit consumers by making care more efficient. Integrated systems like Kaiser Permanente in California manage to combine the operations of hospitals, doctors\u2019 clinics and a health plan into a well-regarded system. But the track record for others is not well known, and many make promises that never materialize into lower prices or better care. \u201cIt\u2019s difficult to even understand the relationships between hospitals and doctors\u2019 practices,\u201d said Francine Lafontaine, a former F.T.C. official who is now at the University of Michigan. \u201cWe don\u2019t have a lot of clear research.\u201d To keep track of what is going on in the market, Massachusetts now requires that any health care transactions be reported to a state agency. The agency has received notice of 57 deals since it began tracking them three years ago. A few other states are considering a similar reporting system. But the expectation is that regulators will continue to have their hands full. The push toward new forms of payment and more coordinated care is pushing providers to enter these combinations, said Roger D. Strode, a health care lawyer for Foley & Lardner in Chicago. \u201cI don\u2019t see this abating,\u201d he said.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/09/business/small-piecemeal-mergers-in-health-care-fly-under-regulators-radars.html", "published_date": "2016-04-07T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Business Day", "updated_date": "2017-04-27T04:00:11-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-27T04:00:11-04:00", "abstract": "As \u201ccreeping consolidation\u201d deals add up \u2014 a hospital here, a doctors\u2019 office there \u2014 they raise questions on where antitrust officials should focus their attention.", "title": "Small, Piecemeal Mergers in Health Care Fly Under Regulators\u2019 Radars"}