{"section": "World", "created_date": "2017-04-17T16:00:27-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/17/world/asia/spokesman-pakistani-taliban-surrenders.html", "material_type_facet": "News", "title": "Former Spokesman for the Pakistani Taliban Surrenders", "item_type": "Article", "updated_date": "2017-04-17T16:00:27-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "abstract": "Sajjid Mohmand, better known as Ehsanullah Ehsan, gained prominence through his ambitious media campaigns, savvy use of social media networks and frequent contact with journalists.", "text": "ISLAMABAD, Pakistan \u2014 The Pakistani military said on Monday that a high-profile militant leader had surrendered, calling it a significant victory in efforts against the remnants of the Pakistani Taliban. The militant, Sajjid Mohmand, is more widely known by his nom de guerre, Ehsanullah Ehsan, and was the main spokesman for the Pakistani Taliban. He had gained prominence through his ambitious media campaigns, savvy use of social media networks and frequent phone calls and text messages to local journalists and news media outlets to claim responsibility for terrorist attacks. \u201cHe is in our custody,\u201d said Maj. Gen. Asif Ghafoor, the spokesman for the Pakistani military, at a news conference in Rawalpindi. The general, however, offered no details about the circumstances in which Mr. Mohmand surrendered to the Pakistani security forces. Mr. Mohmand was one of the most recognizable faces of the Pakistani Taliban, officially known as Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan, until 2013. That year, he lost the trust of the top Taliban leadership after he issued a statement critical of the Afghan Taliban, and he was accused of \u201ccreating mistrust\u201d between the two groups. After he was fired, Mr. Mohmand joined a hard-line splinter Taliban group Jamaat-ul-Ahrar (also spelled Jamaat-e-Ahrar), which has claimed most of the terrorist attacks in Pakistan in recent years. He was said to have been working with the group till March of this year. The rise of Jamaat-ul-Ahrar signified a profound splintering of the Pakistani Taliban amid internal power struggles and ideological differences, most visibly over the start of peace talks between the main group and the Pakistani government a few years ago. Mr. Mohmand\u2019s voice and announcements laid claim to a long litany of terrorist violence, including the attack on Malala Yousafzai, the Pakistani girl who would become a Nobel peace laureate for her education advocacy work; the shooting of Hamid Mir, a prominent Pakistani journalist and talk-show host; and the killing of 11 mountain climbers in northern Pakistan in 2013. Most recently, Jamaat -ul-Ahrar claimed an attack in the eastern city of Lahore this year. There has been some media speculation in Pakistan that Mr. Mohmand had been seeking the military\u2019s protection from reprisal attacks by his former peers. However, there was no official confirmation on that point, and military officials would not comment further on his surrender. Two members of Jamaat-ul-Ahrar, speaking on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to brief the press, insisted that it was a case of voluntary surrender after the group had suffered huge losses to Pakistani military offensives. One of the militants said that Mr. Mohmand\u2019s family and some tribal elders had helped arrange a deal with the military. \u201cHis surrender is very significant as it gives an impression that Ahrar is suffering from internal differences and division,\u201d Mr. Mir, the talk-show host, said referring to Mr. Mohmand. \u201cIt will have a demoralizing effect on other militants.\u201d", "published_date": "2017-04-16T20:00:00-04:00"}