{"section": "Opinion", "text": "My daughter, Uma, is my third child. When her brothers were born, I was working at a large bank and opted for its 13-week paid leave. I was grateful to be home for their first gummy smiles but missed the problem-solving and camaraderie of work. The first time, I tried keeping up with some projects from home but found remote work isolating. The second time, my email access was blocked, so I was cut off entirely. With Uma, I wanted a different experience. I had recently been appointed chief executive of a college admissions software company; although the company does offer paid leave, I decided to return to the office when Uma was 6 weeks old. But on her 1-month birthday, she still seemed so small and vulnerable. I wondered: Why couldn\u2019t I bring Uma along with me to the office? I was already wearing her in a hands-free sling. She slept more than 15 hours per day, and I knew that, despite my best efforts, much of that sleep would continue to be during the day rather than at night. \u201cDoes that sound insane?\u201d I asked my husband. I didn\u2019t want my daughter to create an unwelcome distraction and could imagine my colleagues\u2019 looks of terror and disbelief. \u201cWell, you\u2019ll only know if it\u2019s crazy once you try,\u201d my husband said. On Uma\u2019s first morning on the job, my co-workers came by to coo over her. But by noon, everyone settled back to work. When Uma started to fuss, I overcame my self-consciousness and fed her under a nursing cover. I ended that first day exhausted, but giddy with possibility. I learned to schedule spreadsheet analysis for when Uma was sleeping and meetings for when she was likely to be awake; she loved staring at my colleagues\u2019 faces. Uma almost never cried as long as I fed her when she was hungry, changed her diaper when it was wet, and stood up with her if I sensed she wanted a change of scenery. I was fortunate; I don\u2019t remember my boys being as quiet. But I also think Uma enjoyed being in a sling, and baby carrying has been shown to reduce crying and fussing. Can I say that she was never a distraction? Of course not. My colleagues and I often stopped to play with her. One of them bragged to her friends with an office dog that we had an \u201coffice baby.\u201d Once or twice Uma caught a fever, and I had to take her home. Just before her afternoon nap, she could be fussy, and I would walk her around our waiting area while she whimpered. One of my favorite memories is from an afternoon when she not only whimpered but cried. I was embarrassed, and Ben, our head of tech support, asked if he could hold her. Everyone turned to watch, because Ben is reserved and hadn\u2019t held her before. When he lifted her into the air, Uma immediately broke into a grin. The engineers started singing \u201cCircle of Life\u201d \u2014 that song from \u201cThe Lion King\u201d when Baby Simba is presented to the other animals. Ben chuckled. The one aspect that still worried me was client meetings. An important no-nonsense client of ours was flying in from Britain for a four-hour session. I thought it might be easiest to have Uma watched by a babysitter, in case the client thought we were not taking the meeting seriously. Perhaps presciently, when I tried to prepare Uma by giving her a bottle, she refused to drink. I tried five bottle types to see if I could tempt her, but none worked. So Uma came after all. She slept in a corner in her stroller while the client hammered us on what her organization needed. During a break, she looked down at Uma, and opened up about her affection for her young niece. \u201cI\u2019m British,\u201d she said. \u201cSo I will never use words like \u2018I love it\u2019 as you Americans would. But I would say I\u2019ve been pleased with this session. And you do have a beautiful and well-behaved daughter, so enjoy her.\u201d I grew confident bringing Uma along to client and investor meetings as well as to evening networking events \u2014 get-togethers that I would have declined when my boys were babies but thought of in wistful moments after putting them to bed. Uma seemed to help everyone forget their own agendas and insecurities and form deeper connections. When I remembered hearing that programs exist to bring babies to schools to teach empathy, it made perfect sense to me. By four and a half months, however, Uma was starting to scoot off her blanket. It was time for her to receive full-time attention where she could freely explore her world. Our experiment was over, and I appreciated how lucky I was. If I\u2019d been, for example, a cook, a doctor, a bus driver or a welder, I could never have tried it. But many parents \u2014 and not only the \u201clean in\u201d professional women that you might expect \u2014 might find this model works for them, if they can get their employers to agree. I learned that there\u2019s a movement underway, led by the Parenting in the Workplace Institute, to encourage more parents to take their babies to work. Over the past decade, the group has recorded more than 2,100 babies being brought to more than 200 American organizations, including consulting, law and accounting firms, retail stores, dance studios and government agencies. The main benefit, the institute says, is employee retention and satisfaction, without the liability or costs associated with on-site day care. Interestingly, it has also received reports that parents dealing with retail customers found that babies actually increased revenues; customers shopped more frequently. The website offers a template policy, which includes consent and waiver language and outlines expectations on when babies graduate from the program (for example, at crawling). It also reminds all parties that an agreement can be terminated if a baby becomes too much of a disruption. Of course, I\u2019m a chief executive; I\u2019m answerable to my board but didn\u2019t have a manager to tell me no. Still, I hope others will follow my example. Now whenever Ben or other colleagues say they miss having a baby around, I remind them that I\u2019m done having kids \u2014 the next infant will have to be one of theirs. The concept of babies at work may never take hold in a broad way. But more workers, and their bosses, should consider it. Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day is next Thursday; I hope some new parents will take it as an opening to talk about bringing along their babies.", "item_type": "Article", "abstract": "For four months, my infant came to investor meetings and networking events. It wasn\u2019t as crazy as I\u2018d thought.", "created_date": "2017-04-20T15:22:56-04:00", "title": "Take Your Baby to Work", "material_type_facet": "Op-Ed", "published_date": "2017-04-19T20:00:00-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/20/opinion/sunday/take-your-baby-to-work.html", "updated_date": "2017-04-20T15:22:56-04:00"}