{"abstract": "In Naraha, some classrooms have as few as six students, but the school\u2019s reopening is a powerful sign of renewal for the town, which was evacuated after the meltdown in 2011.", "updated_date": "2017-04-21T05:00:30-04:00", "published_date": "2017-04-20T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "World", "title": "The Children of Fukushima Return, Six Years After the Nuclear Disaster", "material_type_facet": "News", "text": "NARAHA, Japan  \u2014 The children returned to Naraha this spring. For more than four years, residents were barred from this hamlet in Fukushima after an earthquake and tsunami caused a meltdown at a nuclear power plant north of town. When the government lifted the evacuation order in 2015, those who returned were mostly the elderly, who figured coming home was worth the residual radiation risk. But this month, six years after the disaster, 105 students turned up at Naraha Elementary and Junior High School for the beginning of the Japanese school year. Every morning, cafeteria workers measure the radiation in fresh ingredients used in lunches. In some grades, as few as six students take their lessons in classrooms built to accommodate as many as 30. There are not enough junior high students to field a baseball team on the new field next to the school. Yet the return of the schoolchildren, the youngest of whom were born the year of the disaster, has been a powerful sign of renewal in this town, which is in the original 12-mile exclusion zone around the Fukushima plant. Reopening the school \u201cis very, very meaningful,\u201d said Sachiko Araki, the principal of the junior high school. \u201cA town without a school is not really a town.\u201d The new, $18 million two-story building has shiny blond wood floors, spacious classrooms, two science labs, a library filled with new books and a large basketball gymnasium. A balcony at the back of the building overlooks the sea. Many emotions fueled the decisions of the families who returned to Naraha. It was always a small town, with just over 8,000 people before the disaster. So far, only one in five former residents has come home. A bank, post office and medical clinic are now open, but a supermarket is still under construction. Because neighborhoods have stood empty for so long, wild boars sometimes roam the streets. With thousands of bags of contaminated soil piled high in fields around town and radiation meters posted in parking lots, the memory of the nuclear disaster is never distant. At the Naraha school, which was being constructed when the disaster hit, workers destroyed a foundation that had just been laid and started over, removing mounds of dirt in an effort to decontaminate the site. Today, radiation is regularly monitored on the school grounds as well as along routes to the building. The central government, based on recommendations from the International Commission on Radiological Protection, set a maximum exposure of 0.23 microsieverts an hour, a level at which there is no concrete scientific evidence of increased cancer risk. (Microsieverts measure the health effects of low levels of radiation.) Still, some teachers say they are extra careful. Aya Kitahara, a fifth-grade teacher, said she and her colleagues had decided it was not safe to allow children to collect acorns or pine cones in the neighborhood for art projects, for fear that they would pick up small doses of radiation. Nearby, a nursery school and day care center was built mostly with money from the nuclear plant operator, Tokyo Electric Power Company, in 2007 and reopened this month. Keiko Hayakawa, the principal, said she was surprised that the city had pushed to bring back children before all bags of contaminated soil had been cleared from town. \u201cWe had to start and keep moving to open this facility as soon as possible,\u201d Ms. Hayakawa said on a morning when 3- and 4- year-olds romped in a large playground, climbing a jungle gym, riding scooters and digging in a sandbox. \u201cOtherwise, there was a fear that people might never come back.\u201d Calculations of radiation exposure are imprecise at best. They may not detect contaminated soil from rain runoff that can collect in gutters or other low-lying crevices. Risk of illness depends on many variables, including age, activities and underlying health conditions. \u201cI don\u2019t want to accuse anyone of being consciously disingenuous,\u201d said Kyle Cleveland, associate professor of sociology at Temple University in Tokyo, who has written about the psychological effects of the Fukushima disaster. But government officials \u201chave every incentive to downplay the level of risk and to put a positive spin on it.\u201d Reviving the towns of Fukushima is also a priority for the central government. With the 2020 Olympics to be held in Tokyo, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe wants to deliver on his promise that the Fukushima cleanup effort is \u201cunder control.\u201d \u201cIt is really up to the individuals whether they would accept the current environment or not,\u201d said Kentaro Yanai, the superintendent of the Naraha school district. \u201cBut for us, we did the best that we could have done so far in order to reduce radiation levels.\u201d For young families, factors other than radiation risks weighed on the calculus of whether to return. Some longed to go back to the town that had been their home for generations, while others assumed they could afford more space in Naraha. And as national compensation payments for evacuees are set to expire next year, some residents secured jobs working for the town government or for contractors involved in the reconstruction work. Still others are employed by Tokyo Electric, which is coordinating the huge cleanup at the Fukushima Daiichi plant. Ayuka Ohwada, 29, had originally thought she and her family would stay in Iwaki, a city of about 340,000 more than 20 miles south, where many Naraha residents lived during the evacuation period. But once her parents moved back to their old home, Ms. Ohwada and her children, now 8 and 6, began visiting on weekends. \u201cI started thinking that maybe the countryside is a much better environment for my children,\u201d said Ms. Ohwada, whose parents offered her a piece of land to build a new house. Ms. Ohwada, who was employed as a convenience store clerk before landing a job at town hall, said she and her husband, who works in a nearby town at a company involved in decontamination, could never afford a stand-alone house in Iwaki. In Naraha, the school is doing as much as it can to cushion the return for young families. The building, which was originally designed for the junior high school, now houses two elementary schools as well. Extra counselors talk students through lingering anxieties, and the fifth- and sixth-grade classes have two teachers each. All students will receive tablet computers, and lunch and school uniforms are provided free. Yuka Kusano, 37, said her children had grown accustomed to large classes while they were evacuated in Iwaki. But after enrolling in the Naraha school this month, she said, they benefit from individualized attention rare in Japanese schools. Her 12-year-old daughter, Miyu, is in seventh grade with just five other classmates, and her son, Ryuya, 9, is in a fourth-grade class of 13 students. \u201cIt is really luxurious,\u201d Ms. Kusano said. Still, with so few children in Naraha, she drives Ryuya to Iwaki on weekends so he can continue to play on a softball team. Hints emerge of the turmoil the students have endured in the six years since the disaster. During a recent presentation for parents, one girl with thick bangs and large black glasses said she had struggled with frequent moves. \u201cI am doing O.K.,\u201d she said. \u201cI just want to keep stability in my life.\u201d Such stability is one reason many families with young children have chosen not to return. Tsutomu Sato, a nursing home manager with three daughters, 9, 5 and 2, said the family had moved seven or eight times after being evacuated from Naraha. \u201cI just want to build a base for my family as soon as possible,\u201d said Mr. Sato, who bought a house in the Yumoto neighborhood of Iwaki. He said his oldest daughter cried whenever he raised the possibility of moving back to Naraha, where his parents and grandmother were restoring their house and planned to move back next year. In exile, he maintains a fierce attachment to his hometown and has formed a volunteer group, Naranoha, to stage cultural events to bring together the diaspora of former residents around the region. He said that if his parents grew too frail to take care of themselves, he would consider moving back. \u201cWith or without the disaster, we have to make life decisions based on our circumstances,\u201d he said. In Naraha, the mayor, Yukiei Matsumoto, said surveys showed that just under three-quarters of former residents wanted to return eventually. \u201cIn order to clear the stigma that people have,\u201d he said, \u201cwe are back now to show the rest of the country and the rest of the world that we are doing well.\u201d But he acknowledged that if more young people did not return, the town had a dim future. Kazushige Watanabe, 73, said he had come back even though his the tsunami had destroyed his home and his sons lived outside Fukushima Prefecture. He has moved into a compact bungalow built by the city in a new subdivision in the center of the town, where he has lived alone since his wife\u2019s death in January. He pointed out a house around the corner where a family with three children had moved in recently. \u201cI can hear the children\u2019s voices,\u201d he said. \u201cThat is very nice.\u201d", "source": "The New York Times", "created_date": "2017-04-21T05:00:30-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/21/world/asia/the-children-of-fukushima-return-six-years-after-the-nuclear-disaster.html", "item_type": "Article"}