{"text": "How much new information can I offer about asparagus, a vegetable with which I am somewhat obsessed? Or what can I find to say that hasn\u2019t been said before, or that bears repeating? Shall I tap into my own collection of asparagus nostalgia? Should I remind people how good asparagus is for health and well-being? I\u2019ll never forget the happy day someone showed me the patch of wild green asparagus popping through the moist earth along a fence line by the irrigation ditch on a California ranch. It was the best introduction to fresh asparagus one could ever wish for. During a few springtime weeks, that patch gave us seven or eight glorious spears a day, sometimes a dozen, in all sizes. All they needed were a couple minutes in boiling water, and some butter, salt and pepper. I\u2019m told that the patch is still producing. Though we call it wild asparagus, it would be more accurate to call it feral or invasive, something originally cultivated that has learned to thrive in the wild. Asparagus is not indigenous to the Americas \u2014 it was brought over by Europeans \u2014 so wherever it is found in the wild here, it has been scattered by the four winds from the seeds in some early settlers\u2019 gardens. It has the same look, taste and texture as cultivated green asparagus. The green stems and shoots (the part we eat) grow very quickly; any asparagus farmer will tell you a stalk can grow a foot or more in a day. They are in a hurry to do what they are programmed to do, which is to grow masses of fernlike feathery branches and go to seed. They also produce bright red berries, but don\u2019t eat those \u2014 they are toxic to humans. You may find some white asparagus at farmers\u2019 markets, and supermarkets now are stocking small white asparagus from Peru, but white asparagus needs longer cooking to become tender. For most people in North America, the quick-cooking green type is what you\u2019ll find consistently, in all sizes \u2014 skinny pencil-thin green asparagus, medium-size spears or fat jumbo stalks. For any of these, smooth shiny skin and tightly closed tips are the ideal. You may accessorize to your heart\u2019s content, and choose your cooking method. Here are three more options to add to your repertoire: thinly sliced for a raw asparagus salad; steamed and splashed with a pistachio-brown butter sauce; and charred briskly and slathered with a garlicky (preferably green garlic) chimichurri sauce. After a week of eating almost nothing but asparagus while I tested these, I can assure you that each one is a winner. But sometimes, at least at the beginning of the season, I think the best way is the plainest: simmered in salted water, drained at the right moment, and served warm. Then the only decision that needs to be made is whether to anoint with good butter or good olive oil. In either case, the sweet taste of juicy fresh-picked asparagus will shine. Recipes: Charred Asparagus With Green Garlic Chimichurri | Steamed Asparagus With Pistachios and Brown Butter | Shaved Asparagus Salad With Ginger and Sesame Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/21/dining/three-ways-to-let-fresh-asparagus-shine.html", "published_date": "2017-04-20T20:00:00-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "created_date": "2017-04-21T15:38:59-04:00", "abstract": "An ode to the springtime spear.", "title": "Three Ways to Let Fresh Asparagus Shine", "material_type_facet": "News", "section": "Food", "item_type": "Article", "updated_date": "2017-04-21T15:38:59-04:00"}