{"updated_date": "2017-04-25T16:05:38-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "section": "World", "abstract": "The legitimacy of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan\u2019s victory in a referendum has been tainted by fraud accusations and by a series of erratic decisions by jurists on the electoral commission.", "text": "ANKARA, Turkey \u2014 The credibility of the judges who oversaw Turkey\u2019s referendum last week is being called into question because most of them were hastily appointed when President Recep Tayyip Erdogan purged the judiciary after last summer\u2019s failed coup. A narrow majority of Turks voted to change the Constitution on April 16 in a poll that formally granted vast new powers to the office of the Turkish presidency beginning in 2019 and informally validated the already-authoritarian mind-set of Mr. Erdogan. But the legitimacy of Mr. Erdogan\u2019s victory has been tainted by accusations of voter fraud at polling stations across the country \u2014 and by an odd series of erratic decisions on the day of the vote by the judges who head the electoral commission. Eight of the 11 judges on the panel had been recently replaced. The opposition has questioned the results of thousands of ballot boxes, after videos showed evidence of ballot-box stuffing and voter intimidation on the day of the vote, and opposition campaigners faced prolonged intimidation during the campaign that preceded it. But the single biggest controversy was the last-minute decision by the electoral commission to override electoral law and allow officials to count what the opposition says are millions of votes that lacked an official stamp proving their authenticity. The decision has cast a shadow over the commission, known by its Turkish initials, Y.S.K. It was once one of Turkey\u2019s most trusted institutions, but it now faces accusations of inconsistency, incompetence and bias. The Y.S.K. board consists of 11 voting members selected from the judiciary, and a quartet of observers representing each of Turkey\u2019s four largest political parties, who can participate in the board\u2019s discussions but cannot cast votes. \u201cYou are not a referee. You are taking sides,\u201d Osman Baydemir, an opposition lawmaker, said last week in a speech that was aimed at the judges. Most of the members of the Y.S.K. board were appointed under controversial circumstances last September, when several thousand jurists accused of links to the group that the government accuses of orchestrating a failed coup were unseated. Three members of the Y.S.K. board were fired during this crackdown. Five other members left their posts earlier in the year, at the end of their terms, but had not yet been replaced. Eight new members were then appointed by a separate judicial body that was itself reconstituted in the weeks after the coup, as Mr. Erdogan\u2019s government sought to reassert its grip on state institutions. \u201cThe fact that eight of the 11 judges on the board were appointed during a crackdown on the judiciary, and amid such an environment of fear, raises questions about their neutrality and their willingness to vote against the government,\u201d said Koray Caliskan, a politics professor at Bogazici University in Istanbul. New details have now emerged about the chaotic way the board made decisions on the day of the vote, after interviews with three of the four observers who were present throughout their deliberations. Shortly before 6 a.m., the board sent a text message to election officials reminding them that all ballots must be validated by an official stamp. At 10 a.m., two hours after voting began, they issued a statement with the same conclusion, with the clarification that the stamp could be placed on either the front or back of the ballot. Yet just hours later, in the same room on the fourth floor of the commission\u2019s headquarters in Ankara, the same judges made a U-turn that the opposition says has rendered it impossible to verify the results of the contested election. At 4:10 p.m. \u2014 with counting already underway in eastern Turkey and 50 minutes before the polls would close in populous western Turkey \u2014 Recep Ozer, the observer representing Mr. Erdogan\u2019s party, asked the board to retroactively allow election officials to count unstamped ballots. He was in such a rush that he had no time to prepare his request on a computer. Instead, he jotted it down by hand and presented the handwritten document to the judges. Kursat Turker Ercan, the representative of a far-right nationalist party that backed the referendum, said little. But Hadimi Yakupoglu and Mehmet Tiryaki, the representatives of the two largest opposition parties in Parliament, were shocked. It was \u201cunbelievable,\u201d Mr. Yakupoglu said, that such a move would come so late in the day. \u201cIt\u2019s so dangerous,\u201d Mr. Yakupoglu remembers telling the judges, as they debated Mr. Ozer\u2019s proposal. \u201cWe can\u2019t trust the result of the election after this.\u201d Mr. Yakupoglu was concerned not only that the proposal would break the law or that its timing would undermine the credibility of a respected Turkish institution. Just as significantly, it would make it impossible to know which unstamped ballots had been added fraudulently and which by mistake. \u201cWith this decision,\u201d Mr. Tiryaki remembers saying, \u201cwe will never be able to know if papers were brought from the outside and stuffed into the ballot boxes.\u201d As the clock ticked on, Mr. Ozer denied there was a significant risk of fraud. Instead, he said he had information that thousands of legitimate voters had innocently used invalid ballots because inexperienced election officials did not realize the ballots needed to be stamped, or had not had time to do so. Should these voters, he asked the judges, be denied their democratic right because of someone else\u2019s administrative error? Asked why this was never as big an issue in previous polls, Mr. Ozer said that the presiding officers at each polling station were likely to have been unusually inexperienced this year because of recent changes in the way they were appointed. Additionally, ballot papers were delivered to polling stations later than usual for security reasons, meaning that officials had less time to stamp them, he said. As a compromise, Mr. Tiryaki and Mr. Yakupoglu suggested that the situation could be reviewed on a box-by-box basis during the appeals process that follows the election. But Mr. Ozer insisted the decision needed to be made on a national basis, then and there, while the judges were still in the dark about who had won. \u201cWhat is fundamental here: The counting was not over, and the Y.S.K. members didn\u2019t know about any result from any ballot box,\u201d Mr. Ozer said in a recent interview in his office. Despite the significance and tense nature of the debate, all parties said it was conducted in a surprisingly calm manner. Turkey\u2019s political discourse is increasingly toxic, but the four observers have learned to get along after working for so long in such proximity. Their offices are within a few yards of one another, and they sometimes share lunch together. In the end, about 4:50 p.m., 10 minutes before voting closed in western Turkey, the 11 judges voted unanimously in Mr. Ozer\u2019s favor. Shortly after 5 p.m., with counting almost finished in eastern Turkey, their decision was sent via text message to the officials presiding over the 166,000 ballot boxes. Three hours later, the president claimed victory. But the manner in which it was achieved has \u2014 in the eyes of Mr. Erdogan\u2019s critics \u2014 damaged both his legitimacy and that of the electoral commission. \u201cThe saddest thing about all this is that the Y.S.K. used to be the most trusted institution in Turkey,\u201d Mr. Tiryaki said. \u201cBut this decision shakes that trust.\u201d", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/25/world/europe/turkey-referendum-judges.html", "published_date": "2017-04-24T20:00:00-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-25T15:50:52-04:00", "material_type_facet": "News", "title": "Critics in Turkey Question Credibility of Judges Who Oversaw Vote", "item_type": "Article"}