{"title": "Wells Fargo Seeks to Soothe, and a Weak G.D.P. Is Expected", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/23/business/wells-fargo-seeks-to-soothe-and-a-weak-gdp-is-expected.html", "updated_date": "2017-04-23T21:00:04-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "section": "Business Day", "published_date": "2017-04-22T20:00:00-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-23T21:00:04-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "material_type_facet": "News", "text": "Here\u2019s a look at what\u2019s coming up this week. BANKING INDUSTRY Two weeks ago, Wells Fargo\u2019s board released a scathing, 113-page report on the missteps and leadership failures that led to the company\u2019s sales scandal. On Tuesday, the bank\u2019s leadership \u2014 including Timothy J. Sloan, who took over as chief executive in October after his predecessor\u2019s abrupt retirement \u2014 will meet with shareholders and try to reassure them that Wells Fargo has changed its ways. Some think further adjustments are needed: Two influential advisory firms have recommended that shareholders vote out many of the board\u2019s 15 members. Stacy Cowley European banks will be in focus this week as some of the region\u2019s largest lenders are expected to report their first-quarter earnings. Deutsche Bank, Banco Santander of Spain, and the British banks Barclays, Lloyds Banking Group, Royal Bank of Scotland and Standard Chartered are all expected to update investors. Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley all benefited from an upswing in fixed income trading in the quarter, and investors will look to see if Europe\u2019s banks kept up with the majority of their American counterparts. HSBC will also host its annual meeting on Friday, as Douglas Flint prepares to step down as chairman this year. Mark Tucker, the chief executive of the Asian life insurer AIA Group, is expected to succeed Mr. Flint in October. Chad Bray ECONOMY The European Central Bank is not expected to make any major changes to policy when it holds a monetary policy meeting on Thursday. But analysts and traders will be listening closely for any clues about when and how quickly the bank may withdraw its stimulus to the eurozone economy. Mario Draghi, the central bank president, will hold a news conference after the meeting and is likely to try to quash expectations that any tapering is imminent. At the same time, members of the central bank\u2019s governing council, watching the results of French elections, may even step in with emergency measures to stabilize financial markets if it looks as if the far-right candidate Marine Le Pen has a strong chance of becoming president. She has called into question France\u2019s membership in the European Union. Jack Ewing TECH INDUSTRY Google\u2019s parent company, Alphabet,  will report quarterly earnings on Thursday. Advertisements on search are expected to increase again, offsetting a decline in the price of ads as more people perform searches on mobile phones. Investors will be listening to learn about the impact from a boycott on YouTube by some major advertisers after the discovery of ads appearing on racist, anti-Semitic or terrorist videos. Other technology firms, including Microsoft, Amazon.com and Twitter, will also report this week. Dai Wakabayashi ECONOMY On Friday morning, at 8:30, the Commerce Department will release its initial estimate for economic growth in the first quarter of 2017. Wall Street is looking for a 1 percent annual growth rate, although some experts think the figure for gross domestic product could be as low as half a percentage point. Some of that weakness stems from seasonal and statistical factors that have repeatedly caused first-quarter data to look weak in recent years. And most forecasts do call for a significant gain in economic activity in the current quarter. But if the number for the first quarter is indeed anemic, it will highlight how an improved outlook among businesses and consumers since the election doesn\u2019t seem to be translating into heightened economic activity. Nelson D. Schwartz GOVERNMENT On Saturday, President Trump\u2019s 100th day in office, the federal government could shut down after the current funding expires on Friday. Both houses of Congress hope to avoid the shutdown by passing a $1 trillion spending measure that would keep the government operating through Sept. 30, but a few major points of partisan contention could prevent that from happening. The Trump administration wants Republican legislators to include money  for a proposed  wall along the Mexican border, something Democrats have vowed to oppose. The administration also wants House Republicans to vote again this week to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Investors have been keeping an eye on the funding deadline but have so far remained optimistic that Congress and the administration can avert a shutdown. Zach Wichter", "abstract": "The bank will try to reassure shareholders that it changed its ways, and the Commerce Department will release its estimate for first-quarter growth."}