{"item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "published_date": "2017-04-22T20:00:00-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/23/world/asia/yameen-rasheed-dead-maldives-blogger-dead.html", "created_date": "2017-04-23T14:52:52-04:00", "title": "Outspoken Maldives Blogger Who Challenged Radical Islamists is Killed", "source": "The New York Times", "updated_date": "2017-04-23T14:52:52-04:00", "abstract": "Yameen Rasheed, who wrote satirical critiques of the government, was stabbed. He had repeatedly complained to the police about receiving death threats.", "section": "World", "text": "MAL\u00c9, Maldives \u2014 A liberal blogger who wrote satirical critiques of the Maldivian government and the spread of radical Islam died Sunday after being stabbed in the stairway of his apartment building. The blogger, Yameen Rasheed, 29, had complained repeatedly to police about receiving death threats, he said in an interview with The New York Times earlier this year, adding that the police often failed to return his calls or dropped his complaints without investigation. \u201cIn my case, I get multiple kinds of death threats from different people, because I write and do the campaign,\u201d he said. Mr. Rasheed was a coordinator of a campaign to find his friend Ahmed Rilwan Abdulla, a journalist for The Maldives Independent who was abducted in 2014. The police said that Mr. Rasheed was found with multiple stab wounds in his apartment building in the capital, Mal\u00e9, shortly before 3 a.m. He was rushed to Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital and died soon after. The Republic of Maldives, a nation of nearly 1,200 islands southwest of India, is best known as a spectacular vacation destination. But the country of fewer than 400,000 people has also become a source of recruits for the Islamic State. The government said at least 49 Maldivians had traveled to Syria to fight with the group, also known as ISIS; a 2015 study by an international security firm said the number was about 200. The population, which is predominantly Sunni Muslim, has traditionally been liberal in its interpretation of Islam, with women rarely covering their heads. But a more conservative strain of Islam has spread in recent years under the increasing influence of Saudi Arabia, which sends religious leaders to the Maldives and offers scholarships to Maldivian students to study at Saudi universities. A spokeswoman for the hospital, Zeenath Ali Habeeb, said Mr. Rasheed was brought in at 3:15 a.m. with multiple stab wounds, having lost a lot of blood. He was unconscious and had a very weak pulse, she said, and he died while being treated. His father, Hussain Rasheed, told the local news media that his son had been stabbed 16 times in the chest, neck and head. Mr. Rasheed was best known for satirical tweets and weekly posts on his popular blog, The Daily Panic, which riffed on the week\u2019s headlines, often criticizing the government\u2019s use of religion to appeal to the public. He was also a coordinator of the Find Moyameehaa campaign, which was started after Mr. Abdulla was abducted almost three years ago. Last year, Mr. Rasheed tweeted that he had reported receiving death threats to the police and had not received a response. Mr. Rasheed posted screenshots of the many threats he received on his social media accounts. \u201cWe condemn this action in the harshest terms,\u201d President Abdulla Yameen said in a statement. \u201cAll resources of the state will be utilized to bring the perpetrators of this heinous crime to justice.\u201d Mr. Yameen said he had ordered a review of the procedures around investigating threats against journalists to make sure they are acted upon \u201cswiftly\u201d and in a \u201cmanner that ensures safety for everyone.\u201d Three former presidents of the Maldives appealed for a speedy and thorough investigation into Mr. Rasheed\u2019s death. \u201cA brave voice, brutally silenced. Only an impartial & open investigation with international participation can provide justice\u201d for Mr. Rasheed, former President Mohamed Nasheed said on Twitter. Atul Keshap, the American ambassador to the Maldives and Sri Lanka, also called for an investigation, adding that he was \u201cstill waiting for answers\u201d about Mr. Abdulla\u2019s abduction in 2014. Amnesty International noted that the killing of Mr. Rasheed took place against the backdrop of growing restrictions by the authorities on public debate. \u201cThis crackdown has intensified in recent weeks and must end immediately,\u201d the organization said. \u201cAuthorities should protect those who speak out, not try to criminalize them.\u201d In his interview with The Times in January, Mr. Rasheed described how bloggers like himself and Mr. Abdulla were targeted by radicalized gangs in the Maldives, from which jihadists recruit fighters for the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. Mr. Rasheed said Mr. Abdulla\u2019s abduction followed a pattern of increasingly hostile actions against those who question how Islam is practiced in the Maldives. A couple of months before the abduction, a mob kidnapped several men affiliated with a Facebook group calling for secularism, accusing them of homosexuality and atheism, and forcing them to cite parts of the Quran before being released. Mr. Rasheed said that nearly all of the 20 members of the group committed to finding Mr. Abdulla had received death threats, from people who brandished knives in public or through text messages. The messages were often graphic and called for their beheading. Friends described Mr. Rasheed as soft-spoken, funny and fiercely committed to finding Mr. Abdulla and seeking justice for his family. Celine Peroni, Mr. Rasheed\u2019s girlfriend, said he was \u201cjust the smartest, wittiest and sweetest person I\u2019ve ever met.\u201d Ms. Peroni said she and Mr. Rasheed had often talked about the death threats, which intensified last December when his name began circulating as a person of interest within extremist groups. She asked him to take cabs home at night, and Mr. Rasheed was always careful to walk in view of CCTV cameras. Recently, however, Mr. Rasheed \u201cwas feeling more relaxed,\u201d Ms. Peroni said, and the couple had booked a summer vacation to Sri Lanka. He had even started walking home again instead of taking cabs, she said. \u201cHe was aware of the threats, but cautious,\u201d she said. \u201cHe wanted the voice of the truth to be heard, despite the risks.\u201d"}