{"title": "Land Mine Kills American on Monitoring Mission in Ukraine", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/23/world/europe/american-killed-ukraine.html", "updated_date": "2017-04-23T19:39:19-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "section": "World", "published_date": "2017-04-22T20:00:00-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-23T19:39:19-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "material_type_facet": "News", "text": "A member of the European monitoring mission in eastern Ukraine was killed and two others were injured Sunday when their vehicle drove over a mine near Luhansk. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which runs the monitoring mission, said it was investigating. The monitor who was killed was an American man, according to a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry of Austria, which holds the rotating presidency of the 57-nation organization. The man\u2019s name was not released. The mission has had more than 700 unarmed civilian monitors deployed in eastern Ukraine since 2014. Their role now is to keep track of whether government forces and Russian-backed separatists in the region are complying with a 2015 cease-fire agreement, including commitments to withdraw heavy weapons. The organization confirmed that the episode involved a patrol of six monitors in two armored vehicles. The Austrian Foreign Ministry said one of the two people injured was a German woman. Alexander Hug, the principal deputy chief of the monitoring mission, told reporters that the other person injured was from the Czech Republic. No other details about the person were immediately available. Mr. Hug noted that all sides in the simmering conflict in eastern Ukraine had made binding commitments to remove all of their mines and other explosive devices. \u201cSadly, particularly for our mission today, and for all civilians in the area, the commitments remain true only on paper,\u201d he said. Tensions remain high in the region, where most people speak Russian rather than Ukrainian and armed militias seized government buildings and unilaterally declared independence after the annexation of Ukraine\u2019s Crimea region by Russia in 2014. The 2015 cease-fire is violated regularly. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said Sunday she was appalled at the episode, and said her government expected both sides to investigate and determine who was responsible. \u201cThe conflict parties must also finally implement the long-agreed cease-fire,\u201d Ms. Merkel said in a statement. \u201cAnd there, the Russia-supported separatists who are illegally and violently occupying parts of Ukrainian territory bear a particular responsibility.\u201d The Russian Foreign Ministry said the circumstances suggested that the episode was probably meant to undermine the peace process. It called for an impartial investigation. \u201cWe\u2019re deeply outraged by this cynical action, which led to the loss of human life and was directed against international observers who work for the sake of peace,\u201d the ministry said in a statement on its website. The Ukrainian military said the patrol hit the mine at 10:17 a.m. near the small village of Pryshyb, which is controlled by pro-Russian separatists. President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine and the Austrian foreign minister, Sebastian Kurz, also called for an investigation. A spokesman for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe said further information would be released as it became available. The organization, whose members include Ukraine, Russia and the United States, voted in March to extend the monitoring mission in Ukraine for another year. Sigmar Gabriel, the German foreign minister, said Sunday that the monitors\u2019 work was \u201cindispensable\u201d and that their patrols had clearly prevented more serious military escalation in the region.", "abstract": "Two other civilian monitors with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe were injured when their patrol vehicle drove over a mine near Luhansk."}