{"text": "BEIJING \u2014 Wu Xiaohui, the Chinese tycoon who was in failed talks with President Trump\u2019s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, to buy into a skyscraper project in Manhattan, is fighting doubts about his future and has threatened to sue a Chinese magazine that examined his company\u2019s labyrinthine financing. The Anbang Insurance Group, which Mr. Wu controls as president and chief executive, said on Sunday that it would take legal action against Caixin Media and its editor in chief, Hu Shuli, after Caixin Weekly magazine questioned whether Anbang was as financially robust as the company claimed. \u201cAnbang\u2019s shareholder structure is like a maze,\u201d Caixin said in an article published online on Saturday and in print on Monday. It said that Anbang\u2019s meteoric growth and acquisitions raised suspicions of financial sleight of hand, including capital injections coming from companies linked to Mr. Wu. \u201cThe left hand has been helping the right hand to inflate capital,\u201d the article said. Anbang hit back with its own incendiary accusations. Caixin is a widely respected economics weekly, and its findings echoed an extensive report on Anbang by The New York Times last year. But Anbang suggested on Sunday that Caixin had published its report after failing to squeeze advertising orders and other contributions from Anbang. According to Anbang, Caixin falsely claimed that Mr. Wu had married three times and \u201cmade a series of smears and slanders against our company\u2019s legitimate business activities.\u201d The marriage allegation appeared to refer to a report in Caixin in 2015. Caixin responded to Anbang\u2019s threat to sue with its own threat of litigation. On its website on Monday, Caixin said the suggestion that it took on Anbang out of vengefulness was \u201can attempt at framing with no basis in facts.\u201d \u201cWe strongly condemn the slander in the Anbang statement and reserve the right to take legal recourse,\u201d Caixin said. A director of communications at Caixin, Ma Ling, declined to answer questions and referred to the online statement. Caixin\u2019s latest report on Anbang has been part of a burst of unwelcome attention for the company and Mr. Wu, which has thrown into doubt his business acumen and his reputation for political invulnerability. \u201cThe level of detail that is provided in the article is, I think, relatively unique for any type of story of a Chinese company in Chinese media,\u201d Christopher Balding, an associate professor at the Peking University HSBC Business School in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen, said by telephone. A lawsuit would pit a company that has recently appeared politically vulnerable against a magazine that has proved skilled at navigating censorship to report on corruption and financial shenanigans in China. The controversy over Anbang has come while the Chinese Communist Party government under President Xi Jinping is seeking stability ahead of a leadership turnover later this year. But Mr. Xi also vowed in late April to rid China\u2019s banks, insurers and other financial companies of excessive risk. Last month, Xiang Junbo, the chief regulator of Chinese insurers, including Anbang, was put under investigation by party anticorruption investigators. The questions raised by the article, and by the possibility of a lawsuit, may test whether the desire for stability will outweigh the government\u2019s vows to take on nettlesome financial issues. \u201cAnbang is definitely a little bit more extreme and more aggressive than other Chinese insurance companies,\u201d Mr. Balding said. \u201cBut at the same time, if you look at the finances of the insurance industry at large, and at individual insurance companies, their revenue and building and things like that were exploding by just astounding rates in the past few years.\u201d Guo Wengui, a Chinese businessman who fled abroad, has added to the recent jitters in Beijing by publicizing allegations \u2014 many of them lurid and difficult to corroborate \u2014 of corruption reaching into the party elite. Mr. Guo has also clashed with Caixin. Mr. Wu\u2019s family and personal ties are at the heart of the growing questions about Anbang, which he co-founded in 2004. He has been a member by marriage of China\u2019s political and business aristocracy: He married a granddaughter of Deng Xiaoping, the Communist patriarch who oversaw China\u2019s market reforms in the 1980s. Mr. Wu also came close to sealing a partnership with American political royalty through Mr. Kushner, the New York developer who is a son-in-law and adviser of Mr. Trump. Anbang was in talks with Mr. Kushner\u2019s family company to pay $400 million for a stake in a flagship skyscraper on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. Anbang bought the Waldorf Astoria hotel, a popular venue on the New York social calendar, in 2014 as part of a spree of acquisitions. But the deal with Mr. Kushner\u2019s company foundered in March, in the wake of growing controversy about a presidential in-law doing business with a Chinese conglomerate with many ties to Beijing\u2019s political elite. Mr. Kushner has also become an influential White House adviser to Mr. Trump, including on China policy. Anbang\u2019s international luster had already dulled after it withdrew an application last year to buy an Iowa insurer, Fidelity & Guaranty Life, and also  shelved a $14 billion bid to buy Starwood Hotels and Resorts. Before those deals foundered, American investors and regulators raised doubts about Anbang\u2019s opaque ownership and its financial strength. Now Caixin has laid out similar doubts for its readers. The Chinese news media had already raised questions about Anbang\u2019s spending spree, but Caixin stepped into more sensitive territory by examining the group\u2019s ownership and accounts in painstaking detail. In 18 months from October 2014, Caixin estimated, Anbang had spent $16 billion on overseas acquisitions. But Caixin also said Anbang\u2019s successive injections of capital, which have helped finance these deals, appeared to often involve companies linked to Mr. Wu\u2019s relatives and associates, raising the possibility that they were not real injections by outside investors. Anbang appeared to have \u201cused circular injections of funding to magnify its capital,\u201d the report said. The Caixin report said those doubts were reinforced by Anbang\u2019s complicated ownership. Many of those companies registered under obscure addresses, with little capital registered in their names, and often they were formed in clusters shortly before they bought into Anbang \u2014 findings that echo the Times report. The names, addresses and other details of dozens of people registered as holding shares suggested that they were Mr. Wu\u2019s relatives and associates. Until recent days, Anbang was mostly silent about the reports on Mr. Wu and the group\u2019s finances, including internet-born rumors that he had been held as part of a criminal investigation. No Chinese officials have said anything to suggest that Mr. Wu was detained or under investigation. But since late last week the company has fought back. Anbang issued a statement on Friday that it had sufficient cash flows; it told a Chinese newspaper that rumors that Mr. Wu was in detention were false; and Mr. Wu gave an interview to another Chinese newspaper, The Beijing News, that also seemed intended to squash the rumors. Mr. Wu said in the interview that Anbang was especially enthusiastic about Mr. Xi\u2019s plan to expand Chinese investment and construction abroad in a much-promoted plan called \u201cOne Belt, One Road.\u201d Now investors and political analysts will watch to see whether Mr. Xi\u2019s government takes sides in the dispute between Anbang and Caixin. \u201cHu Shuli and Caixin have done an amazing job carving out a space for honest and incisive reporting in China\u2019s heavily censored media,\u201d Victor Shih, a professor at the University of California, San Diego, who studies finance and politics in China, said by email. \u201cCaixin will need all of its savvy to navigate the Anbang lawsuit though.\u201d", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/01/world/asia/anbang-caixin-china.html", "published_date": "2017-04-30T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "World", "updated_date": "2017-05-01T08:02:15-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-01T08:02:15-04:00", "abstract": "The company, which has ties to Beijing\u2019s political elite, threatened to sue a Chinese magazine that examined its labyrinthine financing in painstaking detail.", "title": "Anbang, Chinese Company With Global Reach, Faces New Scrutiny"}