{"abstract": "You can take a picture of your Android device\u2019s screen by pressing the buttons yourself or having the Google Assistant software help you out.", "item_type": "Article", "text": "Q. How do you take a screen grab on Android? A. How you take a picture of the current screen displayed on your Android device depends on your hardware and the version of the operating system you are using. A screen grab is also known as a screen shot or a screen cap. You can find screen shot apps in the Google Play store and some phone makers may include their own screen-capture utility, but many models just require the push of a few buttons. On many Android smartphones and tablets, you just need to press and hold down the power and the volume-down buttons together. You should see a quick flash and then a preview of the screenshot before it disappears into your photo gallery app. Getting the timing right may take some practice \u2014 if you press the power button too soon, the device turns off, and if you land on volume-down too early, you see a sound control bar appear on screen. If your Android hardware has a physical home button, try pressing the home and power buttons together. This is similar to the procedure to take a screen shot on an Apple iOS device, but you should press the Sleep/Wake/Power button and then immediately press the home button. Many of Samsung\u2019s Galaxy phones use this method, but on some models, you can also take a snapshot of your screen by swiping the edge of your palm across the front of the screen. If your device is running Android 6.0 or later and you have the current version of the Google app installed, you can easily take and share a screen shot with the Google Assistant tool built into the software. Just press and hold the onscreen home button. Swipe up and choose Share Screenshot; on some devices, you just need to wait for the toolbar to appear after you capture the shot and then tap the Share icon. From there you can email it, upload it or post it elsewhere.", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/18/technology/personaltech/android-screen-shots.html", "source": "The New York Times", "updated_date": "2017-04-18T13:54:08-04:00", "material_type_facet": "Question", "published_date": "2017-04-17T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "Snapping a Shot of the Android Screen", "created_date": "2017-04-18T13:54:08-04:00", "section": "Technology"}