{"text": "Without uttering a word to students at the University of California, Berkeley, Ann Coulter on Wednesday made herself the latest cause c\u00e9l\u00e8bre in the rapidly escalating effort by conservatives to fight liberals on what was once the left\u2019s moral high ground over free speech on campus. Ms. Coulter, the acid-penned conservative writer,  canceled a planned appearance on Thursday after the political organizations that invited her rescinded their support over fears of violence. \u201cIt\u2019s a sad day for free speech,\u201d she said. But across the country, conservatives like her are eagerly throwing themselves into volatile situations like the one in Berkeley, emboldened by a backlash over what many Americans see as excessive political correctness, a president who has gleefully taken up their fight, and liberals they accuse of trying to censor any idea they disagree with. The situation adds up to a striking reversal in the culture wars, with the left now often demanding that offensive content be excised from public discourse and those who promote it boycotted and shunned. Berkeley has again become a symbolic flash point. The university was not just the cradle of the Free Speech Movement but also the site of a violent 1969 crackdown that delighted many protest-weary Americans when Ronald Reagan, then California\u2019s governor, ordered the National Guard to move in on student demonstrators. The broader point that conservatives now say they are making resonates far beyond academia, and in many ways echoes some of the most bitter undercurrents of the 2016 presidential election. President Trump\u2019s victory was, to many of his supporters, a defiant uprising against what they saw as a cultural and political elite that told them their values were wrong and their beliefs bigoted. And Mr. Trump, who has routinely used racially charged controversies and social movements like Black Lives Matter to his political benefit, has leapt to their defense, ready to fan the flames. When Berkeley administrators canceled an appearance by the professional right-wing provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos in February after riots broke out, Mr. Trump questioned on Twitter whether the university should have its federal funding revoked. Even some liberals say the heavy-handedness by university administrators and students is only reinforcing conservatives\u2019 suspicions, which the left insists are overblown for maximum political potency. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a self-described democratic socialist, this week scolded anyone who would shut out Ms. Coulter. \u201cWhat are you afraid of \u2014 her ideas?\u201d he asked. Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, argued that the controversy only handed Ms. Coulter the big platform she craved. \u201cIf you don\u2019t like it, don\u2019t show up,\u201d she said. Even The Onion weighed in with a satirical blurb about Berkeley being on police lockdown after loose pages of The Wall Street Journal were abandoned on a park bench. \u201cUnfortunately, Berkeley and other universities have played into a narrative that the right would love to advance,\u201d said Robert B. Reich, a former Labor secretary under President Bill Clinton who is now a professor of public policy at Berkeley. \u201cThe narrative assumes a cultural plot against the free expression of right-wing views in which academe, mainstream media \u2014 every facet of the establishment \u2014 is organized against them.\u201d Mr. Reich, noting the parallels to Mr. Trump\u2019s message, added, \u201cThat\u2019s a narrative Trump used to get into the White House.\u201d The university breathed a sigh of relief on Wednesday, but it criticized Ms. Coulter, who has a knack for provocation and a history of inviting disruption wherever she speaks, for being wanton and reckless given that it had offered to accommodate her at a later date after canceling her originally scheduled speech. The Berkeley chancellor, Nicholas B. Dirks, said in a note to the campus, \u201cThis is a university, not a battlefield.\u201d Berkeley has become a meeting ground for what the city\u2019s chief of police, Andrew Greenwood, has described as politically motivated groups \u201carmed and prepared to fight.\u201d Outside groups representing the far left and far right have clashed in the city several times over the past few months in a fight club atmosphere that university administrators say they have not seen in many years, if ever. During the most recent clash, on April 15, the police arrested 20 people. But Chief Greenwood warned of the difficulties and dangers of intervening in future clashes. The university had prepared to call up hundreds of police officers for Ms. Coulter\u2019s visit, at a significant cost. Still, the groups that organized her visit sued the university after it moved the timing of her speech, saying that conservative speakers were being treated differently from left-leaning ones on the famously liberal campus. In his note, Mr. Dirks said the school must \u201cmake every effort to hold events at a time and location that maximizes the chances that First Amendment rights can be successfully exercised and that community members can be protected.\u201d But many on the right see a new and insidious form of thought policing. And they argue that it is only spreading now that the debate over which ideas can be expressed publicly is becoming a catchall that can include almost anyone right of center, and has extended to corporate America, where liberal-led boycotts have targeted socially conservative chief executives. In some high schools, universities and businesses where liberal ideas dominate, said Ben Domenech, the publisher of The Federalist, a conservative website, \u201cspeech has become something they could not only object to but that needed to be stamped out \u2014 that was hate and had no place in the public square.\u201d And coupled with a realization by many conservatives that the culture wars on issues like same-sex marriage may have forever turned against them, the belief that their right of expression is under assault is acutely threatening. \u201cThe First Amendment,\u201d Mr. Domenech added, \u201cis their last line of defense.\u201d Assuming the role of oppressed majority is something conservatives have, of course, long done. And they have certainly not abandoned all efforts to stifle expression they deem morally indefensible or offensive. Public universities remain favorite targets of socially conservative state legislators who want to cut funding for classes that teach issues like homosexuality and gender. And some Republican lawmakers are moving to stamp out demonstrations they find to be a nuisance, as in North Dakota, where a new law aims to make it easier for law enforcement to control protests like the one that tried to block construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline. But liberals and conservatives agree that the situation on campuses is something far more corrosive than mere hypersensitivity by 18-year-olds. At Middlebury College in Vermont last month, a crowd attacked the political scientist Charles Murray, the author of \u201cThe Bell Curve,\u201d which makes a data-based argument that differences in average I.Q. scores among races may have genetic as well as environmental causes. A professor accompanying Mr. Murray had her neck injured and went to the hospital. Heather Mac Donald, a Manhattan Institute scholar who has defended police tactics in the face of criticism by groups like Black Lives Matter, has been mobbed at colleges like Claremont McKenna and the University of California, Los Angeles. At the U.C.L.A. event, demonstrators shouted over her as she took questions from the crowd. \u201cYou have no right to speak!\u201d one man yelled. Many liberals denounce what they see as a growing tolerance of aggressive and intolerant speech against minorities and immigrants. That has only grown worse now that Mr. Trump is president, and people like Ms. Coulter feed on that, they argue. The result has been such toxicity on college campuses that even conservatives acknowledge it is causing their side to dig in irrationally, growing intractable even when the speaker is someone like Mr. Yiannopoulos, who has defended pederasty, or Richard Spencer, a white supremacist and self-appointed leader of the fringe alt-right movement. \u201cBecause the hard-core campus left has conflated any political speech with the worst kind of speech, the response has become, \u2018All speech is fine,\u2019\u201d said Ben Shapiro, a conservative writer and speaker who has sometimes found himself the target of angry eruptions at universities. Last year at California State\u2019s Los Angeles campus, Mr. Shapiro faced a similar situation when the university said it would no longer accommodate him because of security concerns; he spoke anyway, under police guard. Lumping Ms. Coulter in with someone more extreme like Mr. Spencer, Mr. Shapiro said, creates a situation in which practically no conservative viewpoint is welcome. \u201cAll these lines become arbitrary, and then it\u2019s easier to allow nothing.\u201d What some conservatives see as even more damaging to their cause is how figures like Mr. Spencer, who was seen on video this year being punched in the head while he gave an interview, as somehow sympathetic. \u201cI\u2019m not interested in making martyrs of people I disagree with,\u201d said Cliff Maloney Jr., the president of Young Americans for Liberty, which works to remove speech restrictions like \u201csafe zones,\u201d areas on some campuses where political speech is kept confined. \u201cBut when emotions get so wrapped up, you end up propping up people who don\u2019t stand for the principles we believe in.\u201d", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/26/us/politics/ann-coulter-university-of-california-berkeley.html", "published_date": "2017-04-25T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "U.S.", "updated_date": "2017-04-26T20:42:03-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-26T19:41:42-04:00", "abstract": "Conservatives like Ms. Coulter are eagerly throwing themselves into volatile situations on college campuses, inspired by a backlash against political correctness.", "title": "In Ann Coulter\u2019s Speech Battle, Signs That Conservatives Are Emboldened"}