{"published_date": "2017-04-25T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "What Is the Antiquities Act and Why Does President Trump Want to Change It?", "material_type_facet": "News", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/26/climate/antiquities-act-federal-lands-donald-trump.html", "updated_date": "2017-04-26T12:01:14-04:00", "text": "President Trump on Wednesday ordered the Interior Department to review the size and scope of national monuments larger than 100,000 acres created since 1996. He wants recommendations on whether any of those large tracts should be scaled back by presidential authority or by Congress. Mr. Trump, signing the order at the Interior Department, described the designations as a \u201cmassive federal land grab\u201d and ordered the agency to review and reverse some of them. \u201cIt\u2019s time to end these abuses and return control to the people, the people of Utah, the people of all of the states, the people of the United States,\u201d the president said. National monuments are designated by presidents under a century-old law called the Antiquities Act. What does the law do, what changes in it does President Trump want and what lands might be affected? The law was enacted in 1906 to prevent looting of Indian artifacts from archaeological sites. The act has mostly been used since then by presidents to turn public land into national monuments protected forever from commercial development or future mineral exploitation. It was in the news at the end of the Obama administration after President Barack Obama created several national monuments, setting aside millions of acres on land and sea. At the time, some Republicans in Congress said they wanted to reform the act, which they said encouraged federal government overreach, a claim that has dogged the law since it was adopted. President Theodore Roosevelt, who signed the Antiquities Act into law, created 18 monuments, including the Grand Canyon and Olympic National Park in Washington, totaling more than a million acres. According to data from the National Park Service, fifteen other presidents from both parties have designated a total of 170 national monuments, including marine monuments. The president can make national monuments only from land already controlled by the federal government, and the act generally does not change how the land is used, said Lisa Dale, the associate director of the Yale Center for Environmental Law and Policy. If leases for mining, ranching, drilling or logging already exist on land to be made into a national monument, they can continue, but new leases probably won\u2019t be allowed, she said. Most legal scholars and historians agree that the Antiquities Act does not give the president the authority to revoke previous national monument designations, but a president can change the boundaries of a national monument. Congress can convert a national monument into a national park, which it has done many times. Most Americans support protection of public lands. According to a 2016 study from Harvard\u2019s Kennedy School of Government, more than 93 percent of respondents said that historical sites, public lands and national parks should be protected for current and future generations. Char Miller, an environmental historian at Pomona College, said that if national monuments were diminished by the review process, it would actually hurt the people opponents of the law are claiming to protect. Some designations are controversial, as was Mr. Obama\u2019s designation of the Bears Ears National Monument in Utah in December. Republicans argued that it would hurt the local economy, but Mr. Miller said wilderness areas can bring in tourists who support local businesses. Ryan Zinke, the interior secretary, said he would provide an interim review of the monuments in 45 days and would make specific recommendations about Bears Ears. At three of the national monuments Mr. Obama created or expanded \u2014 Bears Ears, Katahdin Woods and Waters National Monument in Maine, and Papahanaumokuakea Marine National Monument in Hawaii \u2014 special effort was made to include Indian tribes in the designation process and continuing management of these areas. Ms. Dale said that reducing these monuments or changing them \u201cwould have a chilling effect on tribal federal relations when it comes to protecting landscapes.\u201d If existing national monuments are reduced in size, it could benefit extractive industries like oil and gas, mining, logging, as well as ranching, Mr. Miller said, because the government could grant more leases on federal land. Given the Trump administration\u2019s recent actions \u2014 including lifting the moratorium on drilling on federal lands and the obligation to limit methane emissions on public lands \u2014 officials might be eyeing new fossil fuel leases on previously protected land, though Mr. Zinke said he was not predisposed to make any such recommendation about the monument land. Mr. Zinke said that he has heard claims that some monument designations have ended in \u201clost wages, lost jobs and reduced public access.\u201d But he added that he believed \u201csome jobs probably have been created by recreational opportunities.\u201d Some of the opposition to the national monuments may be ideological. Western ranchers and sportsmen have long complained about what they see as federal land grabs that limit their access to millions of acres of public territory. However, a majority of Americans in Western states, home to vast tracts of federal land, support maintaining public land. \u201cNo one loves their public lands more than I,\u201d Mr. Zinke said. \u201cYou can love them as much, but not more than I do.\u201d", "created_date": "2017-04-26T12:01:14-04:00", "section": "Climate", "abstract": "The 1906 law, enacted under Theodore Roosevelt, has been used by presidents to protect vast tracts of public land from development and exploitation.", "item_type": "Article"}