{"section": "Fashion & Style", "source": "The New York Times", "abstract": "At the Centre Street store, the offerings handsome, ethically produced staples, suitable, perhaps, for a specific sort of 21st-century fl\u00e2neur.", "updated_date": "2017-04-19T17:12:51-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/19/fashion/apolis-shopping-new-york-ethical-basics.html", "title": "Apolis Will Take Your Edge Off", "published_date": "2017-04-18T20:00:00-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-19T17:12:51-04:00", "text": "Now that the weather has finally broken, the most appealing time to walk in SoHo will be around 6 p.m., when beautiful people shake loose of their pesky work obligations and begin to forage for attention and the day\u2019s last darts of sunshine. It is the moment in which purpose begins to melt into abandon, and it is a sight to behold. But the most revealing time to walk the neighborhood is a couple of hours before then, when the streets are filled with tourists speaking Portuguese and Dutch, and also a very specific type of New York fl\u00e2neur. He wears a slim black T-shirt, jeans slightly rolled at the cuff and Nike running shoes. His hair isn\u2019t quite washed. It is midafternoon and he has no job to attend to, or at least no job that demands his full attention. He is stopping in for a coffee at Caf\u00e9 Select. He would slip into the background, an anonymous cog in New York\u2019s leisure wheel, if there weren\u2019t so damn many of him. Perhaps he shops at the Apolis store on Centre Street. Certainly he pops in to hang out every now and again, to consider whether he needs yet another black T-shirt, or to stock his closet with staples that are ethically produced, reducing his admittedly very short mental list of things worth agonizing over by one. These antifashion men have a particular style, choosing clothes that draw zero attention to themselves but are well made and durable. The look isn\u2019t polished, but it is studied. It is a lookless look, as if everyone in the movie \u201cDefending Your Life\u201d was an out-of-work graphic designer, or if the Guilty Remnant stepped it up to shoot a J. Crew campaign. Apolis (or Apolis: Community Centre if you\u2019re feeling overly earnest) is the company\u2019s second store, following on the Los Angeles flagship. The line was founded more than a decade ago with a mission of using the apparel industry as a source of social good. On its website, it bills itself as a Certified B Corporation, which is a kind of fair-trade stamp among for-profit do-gooders. These are noble aims, and well worth considering when you go shopping. Knowing that people have benefited from the production of your garments, rather than suffered for them, significantly increases the pride in wearing them. And so I walked into Apolis with purpose, and hope. Now, humility comes in many forms. At Apolis, the room is bare, the offerings meager, as if righteousness in fashion demanded a sort of monasticism. And the clothes \u2014 well-executed basics, with an occasional twist \u2014 don\u2019t reflect a commitment to any particular aesthetic ideology, apart from modesty. (The most vivid thing happening in the store was actually taking place in the rear, where a festive gaggle was celebrating a pop-up of the Black Tux, a rental service.) Often, the idea of labor was connoted by the clothes themselves: a handsome chore jacket, available in wool or denim or natural canvas ($198 to $278), or an indigo-dyed blazer ($328) with the mien of the Great Depression. A clever and handsome belt uses a nautical hook instead of a buckle ($88). Fabric and care information is printed on the inside of most garments, with the inspiration seemingly taken from how sacks of grain are decorated. This is a joke, of course. No real work is to be done in these clothes. They\u2019re designed for men inclined to read one of the aspirationally photographed, pseudo-literary magazines Apolis carries, like The Great Discontent and The Travel Almanac (or the book called \u201cProfit & Purpose: How Social Innovation Is Transforming Business for Good\u201d). Apolis sells candles, leather goods and, on the website, customizable market bags \u201chandcrafted by moms in Bangladesh.\u201d But despite the conceptual frill, the clothes lean heavily toward the utilitarian, apart from one rack filled with clothes made in collaboration with Freak\u2019s Store, from Japan (a project that began, according to the website, as \u201ca design and job-creation project for victims from the 2011 Japan Tohoku Tsunami in Koriyama City, Fukushima\u201d). There, you could find navy corduroy pants with an elastic waist ($280) and an unlikely boat-neck alpaca sweater with loads of drape ($230). But those felt like the Dover Street Market compared to the rest of the store. I tried the classic oxford ($78), which was cut well, though the fabric was slightly thin. The pocket T-shirt ($38) was just sturdy enough to not take the shape of the body but gentle enough to cling tight. No matter what I tried on, though, or how I styled it in the canvas tent that serves as a fitting room, the clothes had a strange homogenizing effect. Rather than wearing my political values, or my eccentricities of taste, on my sleeve, I was instead sandpapered into an innocuous cipher. The clothes took the edge off with almost narcotic precision. From every angle, I looked exactly the same: a man with nowhere to be, and all the time in the world to be there.", "material_type_facet": "News", "item_type": "Article"}