{"published_date": "2017-04-25T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "At the Carrier Factory Gate in Indianapolis", "material_type_facet": "News", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/26/insider/at-the-carrier-factory-gate-in-indianapolis.html", "updated_date": "2017-04-26T11:18:43-04:00", "text": "As a reporter covering factory layoffs in the heartland, I am often out of my element \u2014 and my comfort zone. I grew up in affluent, suburban Scarsdale, N.Y., a town sporting quite the selection of private golf clubs. And I studied at the University of Chicago, a cloister of academics and bookish young people that is a world away from the low-income neighborhoods nearby, or the city\u2019s industrial roots. I was keenly aware of all of this when I traveled to Indiana four times over the last year to spend time with some of the more than 2,000 assembly line workers who wound up at the center of debate in the presidential election. When Carrier and its parent, United Technologies, announced last year that it was closing two Indiana plants and moving jobs to Mexico, Donald J. Trump made the air-conditioner and furnace maker the focus of his attacks on free trade agreements and outsourcing. But I wanted to hear from the workers themselves, in addition to the economists and Wall Street analysts I often quote. And so it was that on a rainy March afternoon in 2016, I found myself standing on the far side of the entrance to the Carrier factory in Indianapolis at the end of the day shift, waiting for workers to drive out through a security gate. I began knocking on S.U.V. windows and introducing myself as an economics reporter for The New York Times. Some kept the glass rolled up. Others politely declined to discuss the impending closing. A few hurriedly gave me their cellphone numbers. I handed out as many business cards as I could. A few hours later I received a text from Nicole Hargrove, who works the 6 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. shift. Would I like to meet her and a few colleagues at a bar after work the next day? We arrived early, my photographer with a camera around his neck and me in my reporters\u2019 uniform \u2014 chinos and a blue sport coat, notebook in hand. It was instantly obvious we weren\u2019t regulars; the bartender said she would prefer that I interview folks outside. Instead, I grabbed a large table in the corner, and Nicole and a half-dozen other workers soon walked in. The group was diverse: men and women, young, old, black, white \u2014 all employed by Carrier on the factory floor. (About half the Indianapolis plant workers are women, and women are the clear majority at the Carrier plant in nearby Huntington.) I explained that I was a native New Yorker and the only manual labor I typically perform is folding up strollers in my Manhattan apartment. But I told them I wanted to hear what their working lives were like and what they thought of how Mr. Trump had used their story on the stump. Rather than being put off by my background, they were pleased that a reporter had come all the way from New York City to hear their side of the story. For three hours, we talked about the satisfaction they got from making things with their hands, despite the toll factory work had taken on their bodies, and how they had lost faith in the institutions that once supported their communities: government, churches, unions and political parties.  I stayed in touch with Nicole and some of her co-workers, including Jennifer Shanklin-Hawkins, over the course of the campaign. And on election night, when the industrial Midwest unexpectedly began to turn red, I booked a flight back to Indianapolis to find out what they expected from President-elect Trump. I have returned to Indiana twice since then \u2014 once in December to interview Mr. Trump, after his deal with United Technologies to preserve roughly 800 jobs, then again last month to report on the fate of more than 700 other employees at the plant in Huntington whose jobs he didn\u2019t save. As I stood listening to the Huntington workers share their feelings of betrayal, I felt caught between two different worlds. I returned to New York infuriated by the country\u2019s profound economic divisions, but determined to accurately portray the frustration and anger I had witnessed among workers, who fear the next pink slip will have their name on it.", "created_date": "2017-04-26T11:18:43-04:00", "section": "Times Insider", "abstract": "An economics reporter, Nelson D. Schwartz, has made repeated trips to the heartland to hear what factory workers have to say about their jobs and prospects.", "item_type": "Article"}