{"text": "For decades, the downtown in Bethesda, Md., had little more than a hardware store, a toy store and a few restaurants. The small urban core along Wisconsin Avenue was mostly a place to pass through on the way to the District of Columbia a few miles to the south, or the Bethesda Naval Hospital or the National Institutes of Health several blocks to the north. But in the mid-1980s, as the Metro subway system\u2019s Red Line was extended to Bethesda, the unincorporated community began to take on the characteristics of a small city. Soon several high-rise buildings were constructed. They were filled by law firms, financial service companies and trade associations. Hotels, restaurants and boutiques soon followed, and a Barnes & Noble bookstore opened as an anchor in a revitalized retail area a few blocks from the Metro station. It was not too long before a bank replaced the hardware store on Wisconsin Avenue, movie theaters opened, and dozens of new restaurants arrived in the new pedestrian-friendly streetscape. Now, Bethesda is about to undergo another remake. County planners have spent the last three years creating a new plan for Bethesda, one that would extend the commercial and retail space and housing throughout the downtown, and allow a building as tall as 300 feet in one section. (Currently, according to Gwen Wright, Montgomery County\u2019s planning director, the tallest building in Bethesda is about 200 feet.) Marriott International, the world\u2019s largest hotel firm, was among the first to sign on. The company, based in a suburban office park on the fringes of Bethesda since 1979, recently announced plans for a $600 million project in downtown Bethesda, a block north of the Metro station. The company expects to move its 3,500 employees from its 800,000-square-foot midrise complex near the Capital Beltway to a soon-to-be-built office building with 22 stories. Marriott also plans to open a hotel with at least 230 rooms and meeting spaces for conferences. The site, now occupied by low-rise commercial buildings, is near the famous greasy spoon the Tastee Diner, a popular relic of a bygone Bethesda. The county and the state have agreed to provide up to $62 million in subsidies and tax benefits to keep Marriott in Montgomery County and relocate about five miles from its current site. Montgomery County has also agreed to lease Marriott a public parking garage for weekday use during business hours, and the company expects to build its own underground garage with about 800 spaces. Marriott expects to enter into a long-term lease with the owners/developers, Boston Properties and the Bernstein Companies, said Carolyn B. Handlon, executive vice president finance and global treasurer of Marriott International. Company officials were excited to be moving to a more urban setting, where employees will be able to walk, bike or take the Metro to work, Ms. Handlon said. Planners and public officials predict that other large companies may follow Marriott. \u201cAll of that land is very desirable,\u201d said Nancy Floreen, a Montgomery County council member, chairwoman of the council committee that reviewed the new plans for Bethesda. Ms. Handlon said: \u201cWe asked our associates what they wanted. There was a common theme. Besides state-of-the-art technology, there was a real sense people wanted that vibrant, mixed-use urban community that you could walk to.\u201d Marriott\u2019s decision to get away from its car-centric office park and move its employees into an urban setting is the latest in a broader effort by Montgomery County planners to bring more people to its existing urban centers, and to create new ones, like the White Flint development a few miles north. Currently about 10,000 people live in what is considered Bethesda\u2019s downtown \u2014 an area stretching roughly from Bradley Boulevard to the south to Battery Lane to the north. About 37,700 people work there. According to county projections, the propose changes in Bethesda could bring another 14,200 new jobs in the next 20 years. The community is also set to become a terminus on the Purple Line, a proposed light rail currently embroiled in a court battle. The new plan, which the Montgomery County Council accepted much of in a straw vote on April 25 before an expected formal vote in late May, also proposes a series of new, small parks and more bike lanes and walkways. Council members on April 25 endorsed limiting heights of commercial buildings closer to residential areas. The planners also want to encourage developers to include more affordable housing in their plans, by giving them additional density if they add extra moderate-priced housing into their mix. Affordable housing has been difficult to find in Bethesda for years. Many of the condos in downtown Bethesda sell for more than $1 million, and rentals for one-bedrooms can be expensive in newer buildings. Some residents in neighborhoods just across Wisconsin Avenue from the Metro and the Marriott site are worried that the new development will lead to traffic jams and other problems. They said they were fearful even though county planners proposed placing a cap on density that would allow no more than 4.2 million square feet in new construction if the plans are approved, as expected. \u201cThe pace and scale of the development has gotten to the point that I feel the county is unable to keep up with it,\u201d said Amanda Farber, an East Bethesda resident and co-vice president of the East Bethesda Citizens Association. Many nearby public schools are already overcrowded, according to county data. Gwen Wright, Montgomery County\u2019s planning director, said the county\u2019s public school system could opt to reopen some closed schools for younger students and might need to whether or not the new plan brings new students. Eventually, however, she said the community would have to come to grips with the need for a new high school in the Bethesda area. Allison M. Macfarlane, a professor at George Washington University and former chairwoman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, lives near the new Marriott site and is among those who are worried about the changes. \u201cI don\u2019t think any of the residents are anti-development,\u201d she said. \u201cBethesda could definitely use some updating and improving. But it should not be done in such a way that makes it completely unlivable.\u201d Charlie Cook, who lives in the area, complained on a  site maintained by Bethesda Magazine that the community was turning into a place he could not enjoy, noting that Barnes & Noble had announced plans to close. \u201cI hate what Bethesda has become \u2014 the overbuilding has hit a saturation point and traffic is a nightmare,\u201d wrote Mr. Cook, who is the editor of the Cook Political Report. \u201cAs best as I can tell, the master plan is to allow Bethesda and presumably anyplace else with a Metro stop to become antiseptic places of concrete, steel and glass, with no charm or personality \u2014 just tax revenue for the county.\u201d Roger Berliner, the County Council president, a Democrat whose district includes Bethesda, has been pushing for lower building heights in areas near single-family neighborhoods like East Bethesda. It is appropriate \u201cto have a compact with our existing neighborhoods to shield them from the worst effect of development, to have tall buildings right next to neighborhoods,\u201d he said at a recent council meeting. Ms. Floreen said she thought Bethesda would remain a desirable place to live, work, shop and dine even with new buildings. \u201cIt is on a Metro line, yet convenient to suburbia, and an urban location,\u201d she said. What the new plan will do, she hopes, is find ways to \u201ccreate the right incentives for people to do interesting things in Bethesda.\u201d", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/02/realestate/commercial/bethesda-maryland-remake.html", "published_date": "2017-05-01T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Real Estate", "updated_date": "2017-05-02T14:03:08-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-02T14:03:08-04:00", "abstract": "Plans include Marriott International moving its headquarters from the suburbs to downtown.", "title": "Bethesda Readies for a Major Remake"}