{"text": "BAGHDAD \u2014 Two years ago, Shiite militants raced through the southern Iraqi desert in a convoy of sport-utility vehicles and ambushed and abducted a party of well-armed falcon hunters that included members of the Qatari royal family. Months passed with little news, and the kidnapped hunters became pawns in a complex regional struggle, stretching from the barren Iraqi wastelands, to the halls of power in three capitals, to the battlefield of Syria. On Friday, after 16 months in captivity, the hunting party walked free, returned by their captors to Iraq\u2019s Ministry of Interior in Baghdad, where officers scrutinized the Qataris\u2019 passports and took their photographs and fingerprints, according to Wahab al-Taee, a spokesman for the ministry. They were then delivered to the embassy of Qatar, which for days had stationed a plane at the airport in anticipation of their release. The Guardian reported earlier that a deal for the hostages\u2019 release was imminent. It is clear now that from the very start, the hunters\u2019 abduction was linked to the civil war in Syria, which has drawn in regional powers in an increasingly complicated proxy war. On one side of the hostage negotiations were Shiite powers \u2014 Iran and its Lebanese proxy Hezbollah \u2014 which firmly support the Syrian government of Bashar al-Assad. On the other were the Sunni powers Qatar and Turkey, which fund and arm rebel groups trying to take down Mr. Assad\u2019s government. Their release, which involved the payment of millions of dollars in ransom to an Iraqi militia backed by Iran, was tied to a broader deal involving a trading of besieged sectarian populations among four towns in Syria, according to a senior Shiite leader in Iraq who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the subject. The Iraqi Shiite official said the release of the Qatari prisoners was linked to the safe evacuation \u2014 and delivery of humanitarian aid \u2014 of residents of two Shiite villages in Idlib Province, Fouaa and Kfarya, that have been under government control but besieged by Sunni Islamist rebel groups backed by Turkey and Qatar. As part of the Syrian deal, which was negotiated separately before the fate of the hostages became entwined with the talks, residents of two predominantly Sunni villages, Madaya and Zabadani, that have been held by rebels but besieged by forces loyal to the Syrian government, including Hezbollah, are to be bused to safety. Many of them, about 2,000 people, have already been evacuated from Madaya. Last week, as the evacuation of the Shiite villages was underway, dozens of people were killed when buses of evacuees were hit by a powerful car bomb. The attack stalled the transfer of the civilians and delayed the release of the Qatari hostages. On Friday, the transfers, which critics have said amount to sectarian cleansing and will result in permanent demographic shifts in Syria, resumed, according to The Associated Press. The Qataris, according to another senior Iraqi official, paid millions of dollars to Kita\u2019ib Hezbollah, an Iraqi Shiite militia controlled by Iran that had abducted the hostages. Earlier in the week, Iraq\u2019s prime minister, Haider al-Abadi, was asked at a news conference about the fate of the hunters. Mr. Abadi is thought to have played only a minimal role, if any, in the negotiations \u2014 a reflection of the power that Iran wields in Iraq through the numerous militias it supports. His response was that the episode was a national disgrace, a comment that many interpreted as a veiled criticism of Iran. \u201cThe Qatari hunters entered Iraq\u2019s territory in an official way, and they were granted visas,\u201d he said. \u201cThey should have been directly protected by the Ministry of Interior, but unfortunately, they were abducted.\u201d He said the kidnappings were \u201can insult to Iraq and its people.\u201d Iran\u2019s militias have a long history of kidnapping in Iraq, especially of Americans after the 2003 invasion. The kidnapping of the hunters, in December 2015, came around the time of two other abductions involving citizens of Turkey and the United States. Earlier in 2015, 17 Turkish workers were roused from their sleep at a construction site by masked gunmen and taken away. A month later, they were released unharmed. Three Americans were taken in January 2016 from an apartment in Baghdad. They were later freed after negotiations involving the Iraqi intelligence service in which Moktada al-Sadr, an influential Shiite cleric, helped secure their release. The Qatari hunters were captured in southern Iraq, largely considered a safe place unmarred by the violence that has engulfed the country\u2019s north, where the Islamic State seized cities in 2014 and where it is fighting now to hold on to the city of Mosul in the face of an offensive by government forces. The desert has also been a popular place for wealthy Arabs like the Qataris to hunt for falcons. At the time of the abductions, the local governor described a sophisticated, militarylike operation in which the kidnappers arrived in dozens of S.U.V.s with mounted machine guns and stormed a cluster of tents set up by the Qataris.", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/21/world/middleeast/big-ransom-and-syria-deals-win-release-of-royal-qatari-hunters.html", "published_date": "2017-04-20T20:00:00-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "created_date": "2017-04-21T12:19:12-04:00", "abstract": "The hunters were abducted two years ago by an Iran-backed militia in southern Iraq. Regional dynamics made them targets and later led to their freedom.", "title": "Big Ransom and Syria Deals Win Release of Royal Qatari Hunters", "material_type_facet": "News", "section": "World", "item_type": "Article", "updated_date": "2017-04-21T12:19:12-04:00"}