{"text": "Among the many silly ideas floating around Washington these days about how to re-regulate Wall Street is that old chestnut about separating investment banking from commercial banking. It\u2019s getting a fresh look after Gary Cohn, the powerful head of President Trump\u2019s National Economic Council, supposedly told a private gathering of the Senate Banking Committee recently that the Trump administration would be open to the idea. The president has yet to confirm publicly that he would support such legislation. The concept is nothing new, of course. After the stock market crash of 1929, the so-called Glass-Steagall Act of 1933 gave banks a year to choose between commercial banking and investment banking. For the next 66 years, the law more or less stood until Congress repealed it, making de facto what had long been de jure. (Many banks had been violating it for years without consequences.) Then in 2013, a bipartisan group of United States senators \u2014 led by Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona \u2014 proposed what they called the 21st-Century Glass-Steagall Act with the goal of breaking up banks with assets greater than $50 billion. They argued \u2014 incorrectly \u2014 that what caused the 2008 financial crisis was big banks again using their customers\u2019 deposits to take big risks. Their bill went nowhere. They reintroduced it in 2015. It went nowhere again, in large part because it was a bad idea. And yet Ms. Warren persists. During a recent  meeting, the senator pushed Mr. Cohn on how he felt about separating commercial banking from investment banking, prompting him, reportedly, to muster a modicum of support for it. But here\u2019s the thing: In 1933, separating investment banking from commercial banking was akin to separating a yolk from the white; today, it would be like unscrambling an egg, and about as useful an exercise. The truth is that the most acute problems in the years leading up to the financial crisis occurred in what we would traditionally think of as pure investment banks \u2014 Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley. Those had generally gone hog wild in the manufacture and sale of squirrelly mortgage-backed securities, billions of dollars of which they allowed to build up on their balance sheets. When the banks\u2019 short-term lenders no longer wanted these assets as collateral for overnight loans, the investment banks could not finance their daily operations and sent up the white flags of surrender. As we all remember, JPMorgan Chase rescued Bear Stearns and Bank of America rescued Merrill Lynch. Both JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America were already in the investment banking and commercial banking businesses when the federal government encouraged them to save the two failing investment banks. It was clear that the path to salvation for the financial system \u2014 at least in 2008 \u2014 was through the big banks that were already in the investment banking business. (The glaring exception was Citigroup, the global commercial bank, which would surely have failed without its government rescue, in large part because of the behavior of its investment bankers in packaging up defective mortgages.) If Ms. Warren had had her way, JPMorgan Chase\u2019s rescue of Bear Stearns and Bank of America\u2019s rescue of Merrill Lynch would have been prohibited. Ironically, if she has her way in the future and investment banking is once again separated from commercial banking, the biggest beneficiary of a new Glass-Steagall law would be the Wall Street firm she surely hates the most: Goldman Sachs, which just happens to be Mr. Cohn\u2019s old firm (and which paid him hundreds of millions of dollars during his 26-year tenure). Unlike JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America, Goldman Sachs has no physical retail bank branches and only a sliver of its rivals\u2019 trillions of dollars in deposits. What better way for Mr. Cohn to repay his former colleagues than by endorsing a plan that would virtually eliminate Goldman\u2019s remaining competitors and cause them to spend years, and billions of dollars, going down the rabbit hole of separating their commercial and investment banking businesses? Goldman Sachs would love nothing more than a return to a form of Glass-Steagall. Let\u2019s be clear: The problem on Wall Street is not the size of the banks, their concentration of assets or the businesses they choose to be in. In fact, the big Wall Street banks are global leaders and the envy of competitors \u2014 especially in Western Europe and in Asia \u2014 that are struggling to figure out how to survive in a world of higher capital requirements, less leverage and more rules and regulations. The problem on Wall Street remains one of improper incentives. When people are rewarded for taking big risks with other people\u2019s money, that\u2019s exactly what they will do. It\u2019s a problem made worse when top bankers, traders and executives on Wall Street collectively no longer have enough of their own skin in the game to make a difference to them when the things that they do go awry. They get rich either way. That is what needs to change on Wall Street, not some outdated, cockamamie notion of having the government dictate what businesses Wall Street can be in or how big a bank can be. Chances are that Ms. Warren leaked the news that Mr. Cohn might be willing to support one of her pet projects. That is what savvy politicians do, I guess. What\u2019s unfortunate is that she has yet to figure out that not only is the idea of separating investment banking from commercial banking not the panacea she is hoping it will be, but it is also not something banks\u2019 clients, customers and counterparties want to have happen. The crafty Mr. Cohn is playing the senior senator from Massachusetts for the fool.", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/21/business/dealbook/bring-back-glass-steagall-goldman-sachs-would-love-that.html", "published_date": "2017-04-20T20:00:00-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "created_date": "2017-04-21T15:40:25-04:00", "abstract": "Senator Elizabeth Warren wants to separate commercial banking from investment banking. That won\u2019t fix Wall Street, though it could help Goldman Sachs.", "title": "Bring Back Glass-Steagall? Goldman Sachs Would Love That", "material_type_facet": "News", "section": "Business Day", "item_type": "Article", "updated_date": "2017-04-21T15:40:25-04:00"}