{"text": "It is a standard rule of evidence that charges against one person cannot be used to prove someone else committed a crime by engaging in the same type of conduct, especially if the cases are unrelated. But what happens when the government wants to prove criminal intent by using a case that reverberated across Wall Street, so that traders at other firms should be aware that misrepresentations to customers can be fraudulent? That question has been raised in the prosecution of three residential mortgage-backed securities traders from Nomura Securities International, Ross B. Shapiro, Michael A. Gramins and Tyler G. Peters, who are charged with conspiracy and securities fraud for allegedly misleading buyers about the value of the bonds involved in transactions. Their trial is scheduled to begin next Monday in Connecticut. Prosecutors want to show the jury the indictment of Jesse C. Litvak in a similar case to help prove that the defendants understood they could not lie to their customers. Mr. Litvak was charged in 2013 for misstating the price that his firm, Jefferies & Company, paid for mortgage securities that he sold to sophisticated investors. The prosecution received significant attention, especially on Wall Street, because it was the first case involving conduct related to the Troubled Asset Relief Program, which was started in 2008 after the financial crisis to help stabilize the mortgage market. The conduct came to light when a customer inadvertently received an email from Jefferies that included a spreadsheet listing the actual cost of the bonds, which was lower than Mr. Litvak had been telling customers his firm had paid to obtain them. These were distressed securities with no public market, so pricing information came from the traders arranging the deals. The jury convicted Mr. Litvak in 2014, and he was sentenced to two years in prison. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan overturned the conviction in 2015, finding that the trial judge should not have excluded testimony from an expert witness for the defense that the sophisticated investors he dealt with were not interested in the price Jefferies paid for the bonds, so any misstatement about them was not material to the investment decisions. That argument put the appeals court in the odd position of determining whether lying about the price paid for a security, which Mr. Litvak admitted, might not be enough to prove a fraud if the customer did not really care about it. The case was sent back to the Federal District Court in New Haven for a second trial. Mr. Litvak was again convicted, but this time on only one of the 10 charges in the case. Nevertheless, he received the same two-year punishment. The three Nomura defendants are accused of the same type of violations as Mr. Litvak, and have raised the argument that information about the price paid for the residential mortgage-backed securities was not material to their customers. Mr. Litvak\u2019s case could play a role in the prosecution. Shortly after his indictment in 2013, Mr. Peters engaged in a chat session with a potential buyer about the price that would be offered for mortgage securities. The customer wrote, \u201cOk don\u2019t litvak me! Go ahead with that bid.\u201d The government argues that Mr. Litvak\u2019s name became a verb for lying in the parlance of mortgage bond traders, so the jury should be given the charges in his case to understand the context of a statement that might otherwise be indecipherable. Prosecutors also want to use this evidence to help establish that price is material even to sophisticated investors by showing that the awareness of the charges against Mr. Litvak had seeped into the consciousness of everyone in the market, including the three Nomura defendants. The challenge for the government is that courts do not typically allow charges against an unrelated defendant to be introduced because of the potential prejudice when jurors learn that others have been accused of similar misconduct. There is concern that the jury may implicitly conclude that birds of a feather flock together, so a case against one trader means they are all corrupt \u2014 or worse. Prosecutors filed a brief last week pointing to the prosecution of Michael Steinberg on insider trading charges in 2013. In that case, a key cooperating witness was permitted to discuss the unrelated cases involving Galleon Group and Raj Rajaratnam that took place about the same time that the government alleged confidential information was being passed. The judge rejected a defense motion to preclude the testimony about the cases, saying it could be used to show consciousness of guilt. As it turned out, Mr. Steinberg\u2019s subsequent convictions were dismissed at the Justice Department\u2019s request because of a lack of evidence that he knew a benefit was provided to the source of the inside information. How much weight that precedent carries remains to be seen. The testimony in Mr. Steinberg\u2019s trial involved specific discussions about other insider trading cases. In the prosecution of the three Nomura traders, on the other hand, the reference to Mr. Litvak was much more cryptic, coming in a short chat session with only one of the three defendants. Judges are often loath to go out on a limb by admitting evidence that might be outweighed by the potential that the jury could misuse it in deciding a case, which can result in the subsequent reversal of a conviction by an appeals court. Mr. Litvak\u2019s name will be part of the Nomura traders\u2019 case, but how much more the judge allows the jury to hear about his prosecution will not be decided until the issue arises during trial. To make matters even more complicated, Mr. Shapiro filed a motion last week to have his case severed from that of the other two defendants. He argues that the jury might convict him based on guilt by association with his two co-defendants, who were fired by Nomura Securities after an internal investigation concluded that they engaged in violations of the firm\u2019s policies; the investigation cleared Mr. Shapiro of wrongdoing. A recent success on this issue occurred in the prosecution of Martin Shkreli and a corporate lawyer, Evan Greebel, for securities fraud. Those defendants argued that their defenses were completely antagonistic, with each planning to heap blame on the other for any violations, leading the trial court to order separate trials for them. Mr. Shapiro argues that he was not as deeply involved in the trading in 2013 after the \u201cdon\u2019t litvak me\u201d chat session because his supervisory position kept him a step removed from the transactions. He also wants to use the report of Nomura\u2019s internal investigation to show his lack of involvement and exoneration. That is something the co-defendants will not want brought before the jury, because it points the finger at them for violating the firm\u2019s requirements. Granting the motion at this late date could cause a delay in the entire case as prosecutors would have to reorganize their evidence. The chance of success is low in a case that began over 18 months ago; the motion was filed less than a month before the trial is scheduled to start. White-collar crime prosecutions often turn on the small pieces of evidence that give a clue about what was in the defendant\u2019s mind at the time. Using the Litvak indictment in an unrelated case is certainly unconventional, but because his name became a verb in the trader\u2019s parlance, there is at least a chance the court will admit evidence that might not otherwise be permitted.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/01/business/dealbook/case-of-ex-jefferies-trader-looms-over-trial-of-3-from-nomura.html", "published_date": "2017-04-30T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Business Day", "updated_date": "2017-05-01T12:39:31-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-01T12:39:31-04:00", "abstract": "Prosecutors want to show the jury the indictment of Jesse C. Litvak, a former Jefferies executive, in a similar case to help prove that the defendants understood they could not lie to their customers.", "title": "Case of Ex-Jefferies Trader Looms Over Trial of 3 From Nomura"}