{"updated_date": "2017-04-19T12:12:20-04:00", "text": "HONG KONG \u2014 Chinese authorities plan to question Apple about video streaming services available over its app store within the country, in their latest move to intensify pressure on the American technology giant over the content it provides in the vast and crucial market. A report on China\u2019s official Xinhua News Agency late Wednesday said that the authorities would summon Apple to urge it to \u201ctighten up checks on software applications available in the Apple Store.\u201d The report did not say when the summoning would take place. The inquiry appears to focus on third-party apps available on the company\u2019s app store in China. The report said the authorities had told three Chinese websites to tighten their oversight of online information, livestreaming services and online performance. Some broadcasters, it said, offered live content forbidden by Chinese law, including pornography. The authorities had already met with Apple representatives about livestreaming apps available on its app store in China, Xinhua said, without disclosing details. An Apple spokeswoman in China did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The report comes as Chinese authorities put pressure on Apple over the apps and other content it offers its users in China, which in the fiscal quarter that ended Dec. 31 accounted for about one-fifth of its revenue. The moves are part of a broader Chinese effort to regulate internet content. With services like Google, Facebook and Twitter long blocked in China, Apple is a rare foreign-owned company that provides a significant amount of apps and other content through platforms it controls. A year ago, Apple\u2019s iBooks Store and iTunes Movies were shut down in China, six months after they were started there. In December 2016, complying with what it said was a request from Chinese authorities, Apple also removed news apps created by The New York Times from its app store in China. Apple did not specify what prompted the request. More recently, Chinese authorities have also ordered app stores in China to register with the government. Because Google\u2019s app store is among that company\u2019s services that are blocked in the country, a considerable number of locally owned third-party app stores have popped up in recent years to serve phones running Google\u2019s Android mobile-operating system. That has complicated China\u2019s efforts to control the country\u2019s fast-growing mobile internet business. The Xinhua report on Wednesday said that Apple had been approached by the Beijing offices of three Chinese agencies. They included the Cyberspace Administration of China, the country\u2019s top online regulator, as well as public security officials and a cultural law enforcement group. The report said three Chinese websites \u2014 toutiao.com, huoshanzhibo.com and huajiao.com \u2014 had violated regulations concerning internet information services. Some potential violations, it said, would be referred to the police.", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/19/business/media/china-apple-app-store.html", "section": "Business Day", "source": "The New York Times", "abstract": "Chinese authorities said they would meet with the American tech giant over video-streaming apps that they said offered forbidden content.", "title": "Apple Faces Inquiry in China Over App Store Content", "published_date": "2017-04-18T20:00:00-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-19T12:06:56-04:00", "material_type_facet": "News", "item_type": "Article"}