{"text": "Connecticut\u2019s Department of Children and Families has asked the state\u2019s highest criminal law enforcement agency to investigate whether employees at Choate Rosemary Hall failed to report multiple allegations of sexual abuse to the authorities, which they are required to do by law. Choate, an elite boarding school in Wallingford, Conn., released a report this month that documented decades of sexual abuse at the school, in which teachers took advantage of students. In the mid-1990s, a faculty member used a student\u2019s discipline problems to pressure her to have sex with him, the report said. One woman said she had been preyed upon by two teachers while she was a student. In Connecticut, educators have been legally obligated to report suspicions of abuse since 1967. But Choate did not report any episodes to the Department of Children and Families until 2010, the report said, after a parent became involved in a complaint. \u201cThe number of reports and the age of the incidents make this collaboration more challenging than usual,\u201d said Gary Kleeblatt, a spokesman for the Department of Children and Families, which on Wednesday asked the Office of the Chief State\u2019s Attorney to scrutinize Choate\u2019s actions. \u201cReporting abuse in a timely manner is critically important to protect the safety and well-being of children, and we take any failure to follow the law very seriously.\u201d Mr. Kleeblatt said the agency had also referred the episodes detailed in the Choate investigation, which he described as reports \u201creceived years and in some cases decades after the fact,\u201d to local law enforcement agencies. The Choate report, written by investigators at the law firm Covington & Burling, names 12 former faculty members alleged to have abused students. In a number of cases, students or parents complained to administrators about misconduct, and the school kept it quiet. None of the episodes were reported until 2010, which most likely means no one at the school can be prosecuted for failing to report. The statute of limitations for charges of not reporting suspected abuse or neglect is generally one or five years, depending on the allegations. Because they were never reported, the accused teachers were able to quietly move on and teach elsewhere. Schools that employed them later would have had no way of knowing of the allegations. One teacher, Jaime Rivera-Murillo, was accused of raping a student on a school trip in Costa Rica in 1999, and though the school forced him out immediately, it did not report him. He went on to teach for almost 20 years, rising to become principal of a public school called Wamogo Regional High School in Litchfield, Conn. Subsequent employers said they had performed background checks when they hired him, but there were no records to find. He resigned this month, shortly before the report was released. Another private school in Connecticut, the Gunnery, where Mr. Rivera taught before he was at Choate, recently notified parents and alumni that it had received a report about his conduct there. Mr. Rivera told Choate investigators that he had had drinks with the students in Costa Rica, but he denied sexual misconduct. He did not respond to a request for comment sent through his lawyer. \u201cWe remain committed to addressing these important matters frankly and with transparency,\u201d Lorraine S. Connelly, a spokeswoman for Choate, said in a statement. \u201cWe will continue to cooperate fully with D.C.F. and now with the State\u2019s Attorney Office.\u201d", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/26/nyregion/connecticut-will-investigate-choate-on-reporting-of-abuse-claims.html", "published_date": "2017-04-25T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "N.Y. / Region", "updated_date": "2017-04-26T20:23:12-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-26T19:57:37-04:00", "abstract": "State officials are looking into whether employees at Choate Rosemary Hall failed to report allegations of sexual abuse of students, as is required by law.", "title": "Connecticut Will Investigate Choate on Reporting of Abuse Claims"}