{"text": "President Trump\u2019s populist, antitrade deal rhetoric was always hard to believe coming from someone who outsourced production of his clothes and other merchandise to low-wage countries like China. Now it is becoming clearer that he has no coherent plan to lower the trade deficit or bring back lost manufacturing jobs. In fact, Mr. Trump\u2019s promise of huge tax cuts might actually increase the trade deficit and hurt the very workers he says he supports. In recent weeks the Trump administration has backed away from many of the president\u2019s most ambitious trade promises. The Treasury Department has decided not to label China a currency manipulator and Mr. Trump said he would cut a favorable trade deal with Beijing if it agreed to help him with North Korea. The administration has also indicated that it will not seek sweeping changes to the North American Free Trade Agreement, which the president called the \u201cworst trade deal\u201d ever and has threatened to terminate. And his proposal to put in place a big border tax is going nowhere in Congress because of internal disagreements among Republicans. As he seems to be finding out about so many things, trade policy is a lot more complicated than Mr. Trump ever imagined. On one level, the world can breathe a sigh of relief that Mr. Trump has backed away from his most incendiary rhetoric and his administration is not about to start disruptive trade wars with China, Mexico and other countries. Instead, his administration seems to be following the script used by previous governments to investigate complaints by American industries and labor groups about specific unfair trade practices. For example, the Commerce Department said on Monday that it would impose tariffs of between 3 percent and 24 percent on Canadian lumber that it argues is being unfairly subsidized by provincial governments of that country. That decision is part of a long-running trade dispute that predates Mr. Trump\u2019s election and could continue long after he has left office. Canadian officials will most likely challenge the tariffs at the World Trade Organization, a process that could unfold over months or years. But in other ways, Mr. Trump is pushing policies that could greatly damage American factories and their workers. He has said he wants to slash the corporate tax rate to 15 percent, from 35 percent, to free up money for job-creating investment. And last week he said that his administration would deliver \u201cmaybe the biggest tax cut we\u2019ve ever had,\u201d which Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin says would pay for itself by raising economic growth. Those tax cuts might increase growth somewhat, but history and many experts tell us it is far more likely that the tax cuts would explode the deficit and drive up interest rates as the federal government is forced to increase borrowing. Investors from around the world would then pour money into Treasury bonds, bidding up the value of the dollar, which would increase the trade deficit \u2014 $502 billion last year \u2014 as American exports become more expensive in the rest of the world and imports become cheaper. This in turn could cost jobs. Economists say that\u2019s exactly what happened in the 1980s when the Reagan administration and Congress drove up the federal deficit through tax cuts and increased military spending. After three months of dithering and drifting, Mr. Trump is eager to show voters that he can score a major policy win. But like with his failed attempt at getting Congress to repeal the Affordable Care Act, the president\u2019s trade policy is in disarray for lack of a clear strategy or vision.", "published_date": "2017-04-25T20:00:00-04:00", "abstract": "Threats and rhetoric have given way to a more complicated reality, and fiscal policy that can do more damage than bad trade deals.", "updated_date": "2017-04-26T04:38:54-04:00", "section": "Opinion", "material_type_facet": "Editorial", "title": "Donald Trump\u2019s Trade Policy Is in Disarray", "item_type": "Article", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/26/opinion/donald-trumps-trade-policy-is-in-disarray.html", "source": "The New York Times", "created_date": "2017-04-26T03:21:16-04:00"}