{"text": "The New York Police Department will begin one of the most controversial experiments in policing on Thursday when it outfits some officers in Washington Heights with body cameras. Unfortunately the department policy that governs how the cameras will be used is so flawed that the pilot program may do little to protect New Yorkers\u2019 civil rights. Instead, it might shield police officers from accountability when they engage in misconduct. Most notably, the policy affords police officers and their supervisors too much discretion as to when to turn the cameras on and makes it easy for them to tailor their statements and reports to match videos. This could give them the opportunity to justify any illegal or abusive behavior caught on film. The whole point of this body camera pilot is to curb police officers\u2019 violations of New Yorkers\u2019 rights. That\u2019s why a federal court ordered the program in 2013 in Floyd v. New York City, which we litigated. The decision in the case said that body cameras could be \u201cuniquely suited to addressing the constitutional harms\u201d that the court found were pervasive in everyday street encounters known as stops-and-frisks. As it stands, the policy, called an \u201coperations order\u201d in department parlance, allows officers to view not only their own camera recordings but also those of colleagues before they complete reports or make official statements to investigators. This permits officers to fit their statements to video recordings, which public defenders say is already a significant problem. Civilians don\u2019t have this luxury. If New Yorkers want to see footage so that they can file misconduct complaints about incidents captured on police cameras, they must file either a Freedom of Information Law request for the video footage, which can take months to years, or give an interview to investigators without an opportunity to review the video first. In the eyes of the court, body cameras are not meant to function \u201cjust like an officer\u2019s notes\u201d but as a \u201ccontemporaneous, objective record of stops and frisks\u201d that would allow courts and police supervisors to review officers\u2019 behavior. Body cameras can\u2019t tell the whole story of an interaction between a police officer and a civilian. But they can provide an independent narrative. This makes it imperative that officers not be allowed to view their own, or fellow officers\u2019, videos before writing reports or making statements, especially after situations that result in violence or during investigations into potential misconduct. That\u2019s only one flaw in the policy. Just as significant, the policy is vague on whether and when officers must record street encounters short of an arrest. Instead, officers are told to record \u201cinteractions with persons suspected of criminal activity.\u201d This ambiguous language gives too much discretion to individual officers, who might have different understandings of when such \u201cinteractions\u201d begin and end. Not to mention recent cases in other cities in which officers \u201cforgot\u201d to turn their device on in time to capture a critical moment, or even at all. For the courts, the court monitor and police oversight agencies such as the Civilian Complaint Review Board to get a more complete picture of what might have led an officer to take action, all officers involved need to begin recording at the start of the encounter. Street interactions are not neatly planned. Consider an encounter in Queens between our client David Ourlicht and a police officer who approached him in 2008 as he walked home from class at St. John\u2019s University. The officer asked him to provide identification, which he did, and within minutes patted him down, forced him against a wall, searched his clothing and gave him a ticket for disorderly conduct. An officer later told Mr. Ourlicht that he thought a notebook in his pocket might have been a gun. If the officers who stopped Mr. Ourlicht had been wearing cameras, the moment when they activated their cameras would provide, or hide, crucial information about the encounter and the reasons for the officers\u2019 actions. Surveyed New Yorkers overwhelmingly agree with this. Last summer over 20,000 New Yorkers and more than 5,000 police officers participated in two surveys commissioned by the Police Department. Eighty-two percent of public respondents and 58 percent of officer respondents answered that officers should be required to turn on their cameras \u201canytime an officer approaches someone as part of investigating criminal activity.\u201d But the department disregarded this feedback as well as written comments from legal experts, community groups and advocacy organizations when it wrote the operations order. Instead, it decided, as one official said, that it  \u201ccan\u2019t learn any more by reading and talking.\u201d It is telling that the official forgot to mention \u201clistening.\u201d Cameras are not a panacea. But with proper policy and oversight, they can bring new transparency and accountability to policing. In a report on the survey of officers conducted last summer, New York University researchers noted that a major concern officers had about videos was that the recordings would \u201cshow a different side of the story than what would otherwise be told.\u201d But that\u2019s exactly the point. This pilot is different from other body-camera programs because it was conceived as part of a court-ordered mandate to hold the police accountable. Without independent oversight, better mechanisms for community input and stricter policies, the technology could easily be used as a tool for surveillance and evidence collection. This is especially worrisome alongside advances in facial recognition technology. We urge the Police Department and others who will analyze the body camera pilot to incorporate additional and broad community input into their evaluations. The epartment\u2019s inspector general, the Civilian Complaint Review Board and other oversight agencies must also examine whether the body camera policy enhances or hinders the cameras\u2019 effectiveness as an accountability and transparency tool. Any potential benefits of body cameras are lost if we let the Police Department write the rules.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/27/opinion/dont-let-the-nypd-co-opt-body-cameras.html", "published_date": "2017-04-26T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Opinion", "updated_date": "2017-04-27T10:15:22-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "Op-Ed", "created_date": "2017-04-27T10:15:22-04:00", "abstract": "Any potential benefits are lost if we let the Police Department write the rules.", "title": "Don\u2019t Let the N.Y.P.D. Co-opt Body Cameras"}