{"updated_date": "2017-04-19T03:00:10-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-19T03:00:10-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/22/sports/football/draftkings-and-fanduel-stop-taking-bets-in-new-york.html", "abstract": "The move on Monday was part of an agreement with the state attorney general\u2019s office, which had accused them of illegal gambling.", "section": "Sports", "published_date": "2016-03-20T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "Fantasy Sites DraftKings and FanDuel Stop Taking Bets in New York", "material_type_facet": "News", "source": "The New York Times", "text": "Two of the largest daily fantasy sports operators, DraftKings and FanDuel, stopped taking bets in New York on Monday as part of an agreement with the state attorney general\u2019s office, which had accused them of illegal gambling. The companies agreed to abide by, without further appeals, a pending decision by an appellate court on the legality of the games. The agreement, however, does not apply to the attorney general\u2019s case accusing the companies of false advertising and consumer fraud. \u201cI\u2019m pleased to announce that both FanDuel and DraftKings will stop taking bets in New York State, consistent with New York State law and the cease-and-desist orders my office issued at the outset of this matter,\u201d said Eric T. Schneiderman, the New York State attorney general. \u201cAs I\u2019ve said from the start, my job is to enforce the law, and starting today, DraftKings and FanDuel will abide by it. Today\u2019s agreement also creates an expedited path to resolve this litigation should that law change or upon a decision by the appellate division.\u201d In December, Justice Manuel J. Mendez of State Supreme Court granted Mr. Schneiderman\u2019s request for a temporary injunction stopping the companies from doing business. A panel of appellate judges reviewing the decision, however, issued a stay at the companies\u2019 request. The companies are lobbying lawmakers in New York, as well as other states, to pass a law making the games legal under state regulations. In statements, both companies acknowledged that the loss of the New York market, even temporarily, was significant and that they were committed to finding a legislative solution. New York is daily fantasy\u2019s second-largest market, generating more than $267 million in entry fees and netting $24.8 million in revenue last year. \u201cNew York is a critical state for FanDuel,\u201d the company said. \u201cWe are proud to be one of New York\u2019s largest start-up companies, and while it is disheartening for us to restrict access to paid contests in our home state, we believe this is in the best interest of our company, the fantasy industry and our players while we continue to pursue legal clarity in New York.\u201d DraftKings said it would continue to work with state lawmakers \u201cto enact fantasy sports legislation so that New Yorkers can play the fantasy games they love.\u201d Last week, the State Senate, which is led by a thin majority of Republicans, passed a resolution that endorsed legalizing and regulating the industry. The Democrat-dominated State Assembly has taken no formal position, though the chairman of its committee on racing and wagering, J. Gary Pretlow, a Westchester County Democrat who has supported legalizing online poker in New York, said late last year that he expected the Legislature to act to legalize fantasy sports. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, supported an expansion of casino gambling in the state in 2013, but he has largely stayed on the sideline in the fantasy sports debate, deferring to the outcome of Mr. Schneiderman\u2019s litigation. Mr. Schneiderman and other state attorneys general in some of daily fantasy\u2019s largest markets, like Texas and Illinois, have determined in recent months that the games are forms of gambling and not legal in their states. That has prompted payment processors like Vantiv to withdraw from the market and major banks like Citigroup to block payments in New York through their cards until the legal status of daily fantasy sports is decided. When DraftKings and FanDuel blitzed broadcasts with hundreds of millions of dollars in commercials last fall at the beginning of the N.F.L. season, promoting contests in which players assemble their own teams of professional athletes and engage in competition based on the players\u2019 statistical performances in real games, daily fantasy sports looked to be a virtual cash machine. Each company was valued at more than $1 billion, and its investors included Major League Baseball, the N.B.A., and the N.F.L. owners Jerry Jones and Robert K. Kraft, as well as major media companies like NBC. The sites had staked their existence on the premise that their games were not gambling because they involved more skill than luck, a distinction that was laid out in the Unlawful Internet Gambling Act in 2006. In addition to the resistance from state attorneys general, the companies are being investigated by federal law enforcement in Tampa, Fla.; New York; and Boston. Between the legal assaults and poor public relations, however, some experts wonder about the survival of the industry as it exists \u2014 whether it can outlast the very lack of regulation that allowed its untrammeled growth. \u201cWe are shocked at how quickly this has cascaded with the ongoing viability of this industry now in question,\u201d Eilers Research, an independent firm that studies online gambling, wrote in November.", "item_type": "Article"}