{"text": "When asked about this year\u2019s presidential election, French historians often draw a comparison that could initially seem outlandish. The war that France fought in Algeria, they said, cleaved French society, opening crises of identity and integration that still drive politics, much as the Civil War lurks within the racial and regional politics still roiling the United States. \u201cThe Algerian war was a French civil war,\u201d Benjamin Stora, the conflict\u2019s foremost historian, said in a recent interview from his home in Paris. In Algeria, independence groups fought to end 130 years of French rule. Within France, Mr. Stora said, the war was an ideological conflict over \u201ctwo conceptions of the nation,\u201d one that saw France as an empire and Algeria as core to its greatness, and another that rejected colonialism. The war also became a struggle over whether French identity could expand to include the mostly Muslim Algerians. When France withdrew in defeat in 1962, the guns quieted, but those tensions merely moved into France. Settlers, along with their supporters in France, experienced Algeria\u2019s loss so profoundly that many still speak of reclaiming France\u2019s lost glory \u2014 often while explaining their support for Marine Le Pen, the far-right presidential candidate. Questions over French identity, opened by the war, still pit the French against one another. The politics of nostalgia and grievance so closely parallel the American South, Mr. Stora said, that he has termed them \u201cSudisme \u00e0 la Fran\u00e7aise.\u201d The parallel has its limits, but it highlights how disputes over the Algerian war\u2019s legacy, while often too painful to confront directly, are reverberating in the French presidential election, which will end in a runoff on Sunday. Nearly one million settlers, known as pieds-noirs, fled Algeria after the war. Many arrived in southern towns where Ms. Le Pen\u2019s far-right National Front today draws heavy support, and that are dotted with gravestone-like monuments to the lost territory. Schools across France are required by law to teach the benefits of French colonialism. In conversation with voters in the area, questions about seemingly disparate topics of present-day politics \u2014 immigration, French republican values, the struggle against anti-Semitism, the rising support for the National Front \u2014 all come back to Algeria, as Mr. Stora suggested. Christophe Tellier, a plumber in the town of Fr\u00e9jus, when asked about immigration, brought up the so-called harkis, Algerians who fought alongside the French military during the war and who immigrated to France afterward. \u201cIt was Algeria that was the problem,\u201d Mr. Tellier said. \u201cAnd now the children of the harkis, they are a problem.\u201d He added: \u201cThese immigrants, I hope they won\u2019t have all these advantages that they have the right to now. I hope they\u2019ll be taken away.\u201d Much as in the American South, memory of defeat has blurred with its present-day social consequences. French citizens lost their once-superior status over Muslim and Arab subjects, a transition that today colors the debate over immigration and the treatment of France\u2019s Muslim communities. Algeria, Mr. Stora said, has become a way to express \u201cnostalgia for a lost era, for an era when there was a hierarchy based on ethnicity.\u201d Terrence Peterson, a historian at Florida International University, compared debates over Algeria to those over the Confederate flag in the United States. \u201cHistory is a way to talk about France\u2019s relationship with its minority population,\u201d Mr. Peterson said. \u201cLike the Confederate flag, it means very different things to different people.\u201d For those who see immigration or the European Union as an assault on French identity, Algeria provides a memory of a time when France was great and a way to argue against compromising that greatness ever again, whether by bowing to the European Union or broadening French identity to accept newcomers. Ms. Le Pen has skillfully played on that nostalgia, saying colonialism \u201cbrought a lot, especially to Algeria.\u201d After Emmanuel Macron, her centrist opponent for the presidency, called France\u2019s actions in Algeria a \u201ccrime against humanity\u201d and \u201cpart of this past that we must face\u201d during a trip there, he faced a chorus of criticism. G\u00e9rald Darmanin, a mayor and member of the center-right Republicans, accused Mr. Macron of \u201cspitting on the graves\u201d of those who died in Algeria \u201cfor a France they loved.\u201d The Algerian war divided France between two visions of the nation that play out in politics today, Mr. Stora said. One vision defined France through its revolutionary values, particularly equality and liberty, which many saw as in tension with colonial rule. The 130 years of rule in Algeria culminated in an imperial identity that blended values like secularism with nationalism and the racial hierarchies of colonialism. The dispute over whether to stay in Algeria brought France to the brink of a civil war that was averted by withdrawing from North Africa. But the cultural and identity issues were never resolved The divisions were deepened by the sudden arrival of about one million pieds-noirs and thousands of harkis, followed by more Algerians who went to France to work. The ideological conflict for French identity, far from ended, was imported onto French soil. Jean-Yves Camus, an analyst at the French Institute for International and Strategic Affairs, traced the National Front\u2019s roots to popular opposition to leaving Algeria, culminating in a failed coup by military leaders. Ms. Le Pen\u2019s father, Jean-Marie, who founded the party, grew that \u201cspark\u201d of far-right activity into the National Front, Mr. Camus said. Jennifer Sessions, a historian at the University of Iowa, said French far-right politicians used the language of colonization to talk about fears of immigration, warning that France is at risk of being \u201ccolonized\u201d by immigrants. The National Front also draws subtle parallels between the Algerian independence fighters and disorder in immigrant neighborhoods today. The left also uses Algeria as a metaphor, drawing a parallel between colonial-era abuses and the policing of Muslims today. But the heat of those arguments might obscure a deeper problem: Debates over integration of immigrants cannot be resolved without agreement over the core values into which new arrivals must integrate. That question was raised in Algeria, but never answered. Some argued that Algerians could integrate only if they gave up their faith and culture, others that French Christians would have to widen their sense of identity to make room, and others still that France was only for the French. This disagreement continues to divide French politics, though they are now argued in the subtler language of integration and secularism. \u201cMarine Le Pen uses the vocabulary of the Republic, but in a colonial sense,\u201d Mr. Stora said, referring to colonial-era demands that Algerians make themselves culturally French. The effect, he said, is still that outsiders \u201ccannot access the Republic.\u201d When Charles de Gaulle, the nationalist president, withdrew from Algeria in defeat in 1962, he opened a divide between the French center right and far right that never closed. De Gaulle\u2019s enormous popularity led center-right voters to support him in abandoning Algeria. But the far right never forgave him. \u201cThey wanted to kill de Gaulle, physically,\u201d Mr. Stora said of the far right in the early 1960s. \u201cThere were four assassination attempts against him.\u201d Ever since, mainstream politicians have struggled to reconcile national grievance over Algeria with the establishment position that de Gaulle was correct to withdraw. The National Front, long one of Europe\u2019s most popular far-right parties, thrived by taking up that French nationalism as its own. This anger echoes Continentwide populist rage at the European Union and at elites who are said to have sold out the people. But it has been particularly loud in France, amplified by lingering humiliation and nostalgia over a national identity that is said to have been lost in a stretch of North Africa that was once French.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/01/world/europe/echoes-of-colonial-conflict-in-algeria-reverberate-in-french-politics.html", "published_date": "2017-04-30T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "World", "updated_date": "2017-05-01T20:44:49-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-01T20:44:49-04:00", "abstract": "A midcentury war began a crisis of identity and integration that is playing out in France\u2019s battle for the presidency.", "title": "Echoes of Colonial Conflict in Algeria Reverberate in French Politics"}