{"text": "In the two decades since Indonesia ousted its last dictator, the country has evolved into a democracy based on tolerance and a moderate interpretation of Islam, an encouraging trend in a world where authoritarianism and religious extremism are on the rise. But the election of a new governor of Jakarta, the capital city, last week has raised concerns about whether the world\u2019s most populous Muslim-majority nation may be backsliding. Making sure this doesn\u2019t happen is in the interests not just of Indonesians, but of democracies everywhere. After a bitterly contested race that was widely viewed as a test of religious and ethnic tolerance, the governor, Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, conceded to Anies Baswedan, a former education minister. Mr. Basuki is a Christian of Chinese descent in a nation where 190 million of 250 million people are Muslims and the rest are a mix of Christians, Hindus and Buddhists. Mr. Basuki provided an opening to his political enemies when he lightheartedly cited a verse in the Quran in September that warns Muslims against taking Christians and Jews as friends. He told voters that given Indonesia\u2019s transition to democracy in the late 1990s, it would be acceptable for Muslims to cast ballots for Christians. Mr. Basuki was put on trial for blasphemy, but one day after the election, prosecutors decided to drop the charges \u2014 reinforcing the widespread belief that the whole case was politically motivated. But the damage had been done. Mr. Anies, a former university rector and adviser to Joko Widodo in Mr. Joko\u2019s successful 2014 presidential campaign, is considered a moderate and did not personally direct the religious and ethnic attacks against his rival. But he met with hard-line Islamic leaders during the campaign, and also enjoyed support from Indonesia\u2019s old business and political elite. There is every reason to be concerned that the hard-line Islamic groups will keep trying to use religion as a political weapon. This could lead to increased pressure on the government to enact an ultraconservative agenda, including Islamic law, as officials have done in Aceh Province, or an alcohol ban. It could also encourage a revival of Al Qaeda, which the government had effectively wiped out. Every democracy has its ups and downs. Indonesia is a model for Muslim democracy. Many experts believe that the country and its institutions have proved remarkably resilient and the election may propel moderates to become more engaged in reining in religious extremism. After the election, both Mr. Basuki and Mr. Anies spoke of putting the bitter campaign behind them. That\u2019s a start.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/27/opinion/election-tests-indonesian-democracy.html", "published_date": "2017-04-26T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Opinion", "updated_date": "2017-04-27T03:21:19-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "Editorial", "created_date": "2017-04-27T03:21:19-04:00", "abstract": "Things got ugly, but there are signs that two rivals want to let the country move on.", "title": "Election Tests Indonesian Democracy"}