{"updated_date": "2017-04-19T03:00:10-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-19T03:00:10-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/05/nyregion/ethics-panel-investigating-de-blasios-nonprofit-is-said-to-issue-broad-subpoena.html", "abstract": "New requests for communications and other items by a state ethics panel came just days after the Campaign for One New York lost its case in court.", "section": "N.Y. / Region", "published_date": "2016-10-04T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "Ethics Panel Investigating de Blasio\u2019s Nonprofit Is Said to Issue Broad Subpoena", "material_type_facet": "News", "source": "The New York Times", "text": "A state ethics panel investigating Mayor Bill de Blasio\u2019s political nonprofit organization has served a sweeping subpoena on City Hall seeking communications among the mayor, his aides, the nonprofit, its donors and consulting firms that worked for it, people with knowledge of the matter said. The scope of the subpoena suggests a widening of the investigation by the State Joint Commission on Public Ethics, which enforces state lobbying laws and has been focused on whether the group, the Campaign for One New York, illegally lobbied the city in 2015. At the same time, several lawyers representing donors to the group who have been contacted by the panel said the inquiry also appeared to be focused on whether some donations from lobbyists or their clients who have business before the city actually constituted undisclosed gifts to the mayor. Any such undisclosed gifts would violate state lobbying laws. The subpoena was served on Sept. 14, just four days after a State Supreme Court judge in Albany rejected the group\u2019s effort to quash two earlier subpoenas from the panel. The judge ordered the nonprofit and several consulting companies that had done work for it and for Mr. de Blasio\u2019s mayoral campaign to provide almost all of the documents sought by the panel, also known as Jcope. In doing so, the judge rejected arguments from the group and the mayor that the panel\u2019s inquiry was politically motivated. The ruling limited the group\u2019s efforts to stop disclosure of communications with the consulting companies and their employees. Mr. de Blasio, a Democrat, had contended that such communications were privileged and should be kept confidential. The new subpoena, according to people familiar with it, seeks a broad range of documents and communications from the mayor, his senior aides and anyone in City Hall assigned to do work related to the nonprofit, which shut down in March. It also seeks emails from the mayor and his staff to donors, lobbyists, consultants and reporters, as well as any telephone logs, calendars or schedules relating to the mayor and the nonprofit, the people said. A mayoral spokesman said in a statement on Tuesday that when the nonprofit was formed, in late 2013, the administration sought guidance from the city\u2019s Conflict of Interest Board on the \u201cappropriate management and solicitation of funds, consistent with applicable conflicts of interest laws,\u201d and that the mayor\u2019s office \u201cconsistently followed that guidance throughout\u201d the group\u2019s existence. Laurence D. Laufer, a lawyer for the Campaign for One New York, said in a statement, \u201cWe are sad, but not surprised, that Jcope\u2019s year-and-a-half-long political fishing expedition is continuing, nor are we shocked that they have invented yet another frivolous legal theory to justify its existence.\u201d Walter McClure, a spokesman for the commission, said that under law, he could not comment on anything that might relate to an investigative matter. The inquiry by the ethics panel, which has the authority to bring administrative actions and seek fines, is separate from more than a half-dozen federal and state criminal investigations that in recent months have examined various aspects of the mayor\u2019s political fund-raising. One of those, being conducted by federal prosecutors in Manhattan and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, has also focused in some measure on the Campaign for One New York, according to people briefed on the matter. Critics have raised questions about the relationship between the nonprofit and Mr. de Blasio, who had an active role in fund-raising for the group. The questions include whether the group was simply working as an arm of his campaign and whether giving money to it may have been a way for those with business before the city \u2014 or those seeking such business \u2014 to curry favor with him without being subject to campaign-finance limits. The nature of that relationship seemed even murkier after the Albany judge\u2019s ruling, when Mr. de Blasio\u2019s response seemed to tacitly acknowledge that there was little separation between the nonprofit and him and his administration. When asked why the nonprofit had refused to comply with the subpoena, Mr. de Blasio said, \u201cWe disagree with judge\u2019s final judgment, and so we\u2019re exploring appellate options at this point.\u201d The Campaign for One New York is what the Internal Revenue Service characterizes as a social welfare nonprofit, which means that it was supposed to work primarily to promote the common good and welfare of an entire community. Such nonprofits, which include groups like the Sierra Club and the National Right to Life Committee, are allowed to participate in politics \u2014 as long as politics does not become their primary focus. In its incorporation papers and documents filed with the I.R.S., the group said that its purpose was to \u201cadvocate for One New York and New York City by informing the public and policy makers about legislative and public policy options.\u201d After the United States Supreme Court loosened campaign-finance rules in its 2010 Citizens United ruling, many political consultants and politicians started using social welfare groups, which do not have to disclose donors, to hide the source of federal campaign donations. Having a nonprofit act as an arm of the mayor raises questions about transparency and about whether it is just intended to help him win re-election and be a place where people with business before the city can donate to gain favor. The idea of having a politician so closely tied to a social welfare nonprofit has prompted controversy in recent years. Allies of Govs. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, a Democrat, and Chris Christie of New Jersey, a Republican, formed such nonprofits to advance each administration\u2019s goals. Both were shut down after criticism from lawmakers and campaign finance watchdogs.", "item_type": "Article"}