{"text": "The Justice Department is expected to block two mergers involving four of the nation\u2019s five largest health insurance companies, on the ground that the deals would harm competition. But don\u2019t expect the action to stop the consolidation in the health care industry anytime soon. No matter the fate of the deals between Anthem and Cigna, and Aetna and Humana, hospitals, doctors\u2019 groups and even insurers are almost certain to continue their scramble to find partners in a rapidly changing environment. Blockbuster deals may slow, but smaller combinations will remain attractive. The reason: Size matters. As hospitals combine with other hospitals and doctors\u2019 groups, their growth is fueling health insurance companies\u2019 desire to merge, to get more clout in negotiating how much they will pay for care. \u201cWhile these two large mergers are the largest deals to be done historically, if they don\u2019t go through, you\u2019re still going to have the same challenges,\u201d said Bret Schroeder, a health care analyst for PA Consulting Group. \u201cYou\u2019ll absolutely see activity.\u201d \u201cThe insurance mergers are a direct result of the provider mergers over the last five years,\u201d Mr. Schroeder said. That certainly won\u2019t make the opponents of the mergers \u2014 in many cases, consumer groups \u2014 rest easier. What worries them is that the deal frenzy is sharply limiting competition and could lead to less innovation and higher prices for consumers. Instead of five large health insurers, the mergers would leave three enormous entities that could potentially dominate different segments of the market. People who are covered through their employers would most likely have fewer choices of plans, and they might have fewer options when shopping for an individual policy on the state exchanges or picking a private Medicare plan in some areas. Opponents of the continuing consolidation say some markets are already not competitive enough. There are few start-up insurers, such as Oscar Health of New York, and many of them are struggling in the state marketplaces selling individual policies. The companies argue that the mergers would help them become more efficient and better able to provide care at reduced cost. But skeptics say such that mergers rarely, if ever, benefit consumers and that they hope the federal government\u2019s actions will give pause to some of the plans. \u201cI hope this will have the effect of throwing a large bucket of cold water on the mindless urge to merge,\u201d said Martin Gaynor, a health economist at Carnegie Mellon University. But Mr. Gaynor acknowledges there are many forces driving the consolidation, and he expects efforts to combine will continue. \u201cI don\u2019t think this means a cessation in merger activity in health care,\u201d he said. If the Justice Department blocks the mergers \u2014 a decision is expected within the next week or so, according to a person briefed on the matter \u2014 the largest companies may be more reluctant to try combining with another large entity. UnitedHealth Group, for example, appears very unlikely to try to acquire Anthem, which is its closest rival. \u201cIt does make it more challenging,\u201d said Ana Gupte, a health care analyst for Leerink Partners, referring to the expected action by the Justice Department. But the large insurers could set their sights on one of the publicly traded companies that specialize in Medicaid, like WellCare, as a way of broadening their presence in that market. And Humana, the smallest of the four insurers now in play, could still be appealing to one of the other suitors if the deal with Aetna falls through. Humana specializes in private Medicare plans and could add more of a presence in that market to companies wanting to increase that business. \u201cI don\u2019t think it\u2019s out of the question Anthem or Cigna goes after Humana,\u201d Ms. Gupte said. Analysts say Anthem, in particular, may be on the prowl. The company operates for-profit Blue Cross plans in 14 states and has a history of buying nonprofit Blue Cross plans as a way of extending its reach. \u201cThey are going to feel some pressure to do some sort of smaller buys out there,\u201d said Paula Wade, an analyst with Decision Resources Group, who follows the industry. \u201cIt would be very small and gradual.\u201d The insurers could also look further afield. UnitedHealth, with its Optum unit, is a skilled builder of a portfolio of diverse businesses. The other insurers could follow suit by buying a pharmacy benefit manager, a chain of urgent care centers or something similar, said Ms. Gupte. Even if the largest insurers avoid big deals, they are most likely to pursue buying somewhat smaller companies \u2014 acquisitions that are unlikely to raise the ire of regulators. Many of these incremental deals go under the radar. Even if they notice, regulators are more likely to bless the merging of two smaller players. Centene, a Medicaid managed care company, recently closed on its acquisition of Health Net, a for-profit insurer in California. Even the hospitals have not been bowed by a similar resistance by the Federal Trade Commission, which has recently brought lawsuits against some large hospital mergers, just as the Justice Department threatens to bring cases against the health insurers. Despite the recent attempt by the F.T.C. to stop the proposed merger of two large hospital systems in the Chicago area, a federal judge ruled the systems could proceed. The F.T.C. is appealing the ruling. \u201cThere\u2019s going to be massive pressure for consolidation, just based on the A.C.A.,\u201d said Rob Fuller, a former hospital executive who is a lawyer at Nelson Hardiman, referring to the Affordable Care Act, the federal law that ushered in significant changes to health insurance and the overall market. The law encourages much closer coordination in health care, he said, and insurers and hospitals need more customers to be much more efficient. \u201cYou\u2019re not going to achieve the economies of scale unless you allow consolidation,\u201d he said. He described the challenges by the F.T.C. and the Justice Department as \u201ca Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde kind of thing,\u201d with some areas of the government actively pushing consolidation and others opposing it. Analysts see little to stop the fundamental drive toward these combinations as health insurers and hospitals seek the kind of scale necessary to invest in technology and data tools and worry about being left out as others partner. \u201cThe direction that health care is going is very much favorable to that concentration,\u201d Ms. Wade said.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/21/business/failure-of-2-health-insurer-mergers-is-unlikely-to-stop-the-efforts.html", "published_date": "2016-07-19T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Business Day", "updated_date": "2017-04-27T04:00:11-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-27T04:00:11-04:00", "abstract": "The Justice Department is expected to block two mergers among the nation\u2019s largest health insurers, but experts say that growth through partnerships will probably continue.", "title": "Failure of 2 Health Insurer Mergers Is Unlikely to Stop the Efforts"}