{"text": "Here\u2019s a look at what\u2019s coming up this week. ECONOMY On Monday at 8:30 a.m., the Commerce Department will report on personal income and spending for March. Economists expect a 0.3 percent increase in income and a 0.2 percent rise in spending. If the consensus for income is correct, it will mark a slowdown from faster gains in January and February, but after a tepid jobs report for March, some reversal may have occurred. As for spending, economists will be closely watching that figure after a report on Friday on economic growth in the first quarter showed a decline in consumption early in the year. Nelson D. Schwartz MEDIA A decade of labor peace in Hollywood could be shattered on Tuesday if negotiators for unions representing television and movie writers fail to come to terms on a new three-year contract with studios. The unions, the Writers Guild of America, East, and the Writers Guild of America, West, have been locked in discussions with studio representatives over the past week, with sticking points that include a faltering health care plan and pay for short-form series, in particular those for cable networks and streaming series. If no deal is reached before 12:01 a.m. Pacific time on Tuesday, when the current contract expires, the unions have promised to strike, sending late-night shows into immediate reruns and threatening the industry\u2019s \u201cupfront\u201d ad sales presentations, scheduled for mid-May in New York. Brooks Barnes ECONOMY Financial markets are increasingly confident that the Federal Reserve will raise its benchmark interest rate in June, as it did in December and March. But first, the Fed has a meeting on Tuesday and Wednesday, when, it is widely expected, nothing will happen. Fed officials are planning to continue discussing the next phase in the Fed\u2019s return to normal: reducing the central bank\u2019s huge investments in Treasuries and mortgage bonds. But no decision is expected until later this year. The Fed will also update its economic outlook in the statement it will publish on Wednesday. Continued confidence that the economy is in good health would set the stage for a June increase. Binyamin Appelbaum AUTO INDUSTRY Volkswagen will provide details about first-quarter earnings on Wednesday, elaborating on a bare-bones preliminary report on April 18. The carmaker said then that operating profit had risen 28 percent to 4.4 billion euros ($4.79 billion) because of improved profitability at the core Volkswagen brand, but gave no details about the performance of other units like Audi or Porsche. Then, on Friday, Volkswagen executives will hold a news conference in Wolfsburg, Germany, to further outline plans to revive the company\u2019s brand, which has long suffered from high production costs and meager profits. Jack Ewing BANKING HSBC and the French banks BNP Paribas and Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 G\u00e9n\u00e9rale are expected to update investors on their first-quarter results this week. The quarter has been positive one for many lenders, with the Swiss banks Credit Suisse and UBS reporting strong gains last week and the Royal Bank of Scotland posting its first profit since the third quarter of 2015. UBS and Standard Chartered will also hold their annual meetings of shareholders this week. Chad Bray MANUFACTURING Move over, Boeing and Airbus: Like Western giants in a number of other industries, you are about to have competition from China. Most likely late this week, China plans to conduct the maiden public flight of its new commercial jet, the Comac C919. A single-aisle jet that can carry 150 to 190 passengers depending on how tightly they are packed together, it will compete with the Boeing 737 and the Airbus A320. Almost all of the initial orders are from Chinese airlines, but China hopes to start exporting the new jet and has already begun promoting it in Africa. Keith Bradsher ECONOMY On Friday at 8:30 a.m., the Labor Department is scheduled to release its report on the nation\u2019s hiring and unemployment for April. After the government posted a somewhat disappointing initial estimate of 98,000 new jobs in March, economists are expecting payrolls to recover. Initial jobless claims dipped, and Wall Street analysts are predicting 193,000 new jobs for April, with a slight tick up in the unemployment rate to 4.6 percent from 4.5 percent. The increase could reflect upbeat economic appraisals and indicate that more people are rejoining the work force because they are more hopeful of finding a job. The average hourly wage is expected to climb by 0.3 percent, bringing the year-over-year increase to 2.7 percent. If the past couple of months are a guide, watchers can expect that a low hiring figure will pass mostly unremarked upon by the Trump administration, whereas a good one will be an opportunity to claim success. Patricia Cohen INVESTING Thousands of investors are expected to descend upon Omaha on Saturday for Berkshire Hathaway\u2019s annual shareholders meeting, long called the Woodstock for capitalism. The chief attraction, of course, is the chance to hear live from Berkshire\u2019s chief executive, Warren E. Buffett, and his longtime partner, Charles Munger. Mr. Buffett is expected to face questions about President Trump and about Wells Fargo, one of Berkshire\u2019s biggest investments, which is still dealing with fallout from its scandal over fraudulent accounts. Also expected: the usual query about who will succeed him as chief executive. Michael J. de la Merced", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/30/business/fed-will-update-economic-outlook-and-april-jobs-data-is-ahead.html", "published_date": "2017-04-29T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Business Day", "updated_date": "2017-04-30T21:00:07-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-30T21:00:07-04:00", "abstract": "The Federal Reserve will meet Tuesday and Wednesday, and on Friday analysts expect to hear that 193,000 jobs were added in April.", "title": "Fed Will Update Economic Outlook, and April Jobs Data Is Ahead"}