{"text": "21st Century Fox is talking to Blackstone Group about making an offer for Tribune Media, according to people briefed on the negotiations. The potential arrangement could involve cash from Blackstone, while 21st Century Fox would contribute its 28 owned-and-operated stations to the joint venture that would buy Tribune Media, according to Bloomberg and The Financial Times, which earlier reported the deal. The move could set off a bidding war for Tribune\u2019s stable of television stations: \u2022 Sinclair Broadcast Group, the biggest station operator in the United States, has also made an offer for Tribune, which has a market value of about $3.2 billion. \u2022 Nexstar, a broadcaster based in Texas with 170 local television stations, is also said to be considering an offer, according to The Wall Street Journal and Bloomberg. The interest in Tribune comes after the Federal Communications Commission changed regulations governing station ownership, essentially loosening rules limiting how many stations a single operator could own. 21st Century Fox is also trying to shore up its television empire, even as it deals with sexual harassment scandals at Fox News, and awaits regulatory approval to buy full control of the British satellite television network Sky. This year, nearly 300 executives have visited the White House, putting business leaders on par with senior lawmakers in the pecking order in Washington. The conversations have been confrontational, in some instances leading to about-turns by President Trump, according to people who participated in the discussions. It has been a sharp break with the Obama administration, when executives were rarely given face time with the president. Democrats and critics have complained about business leaders\u2019 seemingly unfettered access to the president. But White House aides argue that the rapport being built positions Mr. Trump for future success. The business executives are mostly being handled by Chris Liddell, the president\u2019s assistant for strategic initiatives and a former chief financial officer at Microsoft and General Motors, and Reed Cordish, assistant to the president for intergovernmental and technology initiatives. The pair are upbeat about the \u201clistening groups,\u201d saying that they have been barraged with ideas from executives and trade groups for deregulation, job creation and the streamlining of services. Still, some executives have been frustrated by what they view as well-intentioned but fruitless talk. And they are wary of the potential fallout from being regarded as an ally of Mr. Trump. The president has also broken with the previous administration in his approach to trade deals. While President Barack Obama focused on multilateral deals, aimed at maximizing the expansion of markets, Mr. Trump has favored bilateral trade pacts, in which the United States has the leverage of the world\u2019s largest economy. Mr. Trump has promised to renegotiate Nafta as well. A tightening of the so-called rules of origin, which specify the percentage of a finished product that must be made within North America to qualify for duty-free access within the region, would prevent China from exploiting loopholes. It would play well to a blue-collar base. But the pledge could imperil swaths of the American economy, costing jobs in the name of saving them.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/01/business/dealbook/fox-blackstone-tribune-trump.html", "published_date": "2017-04-30T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Business Day", "updated_date": "2017-05-01T05:14:25-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-01T05:14:25-04:00", "abstract": "The potential arrangement could set off a bidding war for Tribune\u2019s stable of television stations.", "title": "Morning Agenda: Fox and Blackstone Teaming Up for Tribune Media"}