{"text": "WASHINGTON \u2014 When President Trump swept into the White House in January, some of his advisers confidently predicted that his victory would set off a populist wave across Europe \u2014 one that would scatter mainstream parties on the left and right, and tether Europeans to the same nationalist ideology that Mr. Trump espoused in the United States. It did not, in those days, seem a far-fetched proposition, with far-right parties ascendant across the Continent. Now, with the French election starting this weekend, Mr. Trump faces the biggest test yet of whether nationalist and nativist ideas like his appeal to voters elsewhere in the Western world. That may explain why the president decided to weigh in on the campaign as brashly as he did on Friday, writing on Twitter that the terrorist shooting in Paris would upend the election. \u201cThe people of France will not take much more of this,\u201d Mr. Trump said. \u201cWill have a big effect on presidential election!\u201d Mr. Trump\u2019s election followed Britain\u2019s decision to leave the European Union, commonly known as Brexit, auguring the start of a populist wave. Far-right parties seemed on the rise in Austria, the Netherlands and even Germany, where nationalist parties had failed for decades to gain a foothold. The big prize was France, where Marine Le Pen, the leader of the National Front party, has a credible chance of winning the presidency, running on an anti-immigrant platform that echoes Mr. Trump\u2019s. But if Mr. Trump is keeping score, as he most assuredly is, the Trump wave has yet to form. If anything, Europeans have turned against nationalists. In Austria in December, voters narrowly chose a Green Party candidate over one from the far-right Freedom Party as president. In the Netherlands last month, the Party of Freedom fell short of being the largest party in the House of Representatives, though it is the second largest. Ms. Le Pen still has a chance of winning. But France\u2019s presidential election has become a fragmented affair, with her and three other candidates \u2014 a conventional conservative; a centrist ex-banker; and a rising leftist \u2014 all vying to emerge from the pack in a campaign that has been driven as much by economic concerns as terrorism and security. While Mr. Trump did not name any candidates in his Twitter post, there is little doubt among experts that he favors Ms. Le Pen. She has seized on Thursday\u2019s fatal shooting of a policeman on the Champs-\u00c9lys\u00e9es, an act claimed by the Islamic State, to turn the election into a referendum on what she calls \u201cradical Islam.\u201d Fears about Mr. Trump\u2019s influence over European elections deepened after the disclosure that Breitbart News, the far-right website formerly run by his chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, planned to open offices in Paris and Berlin. (Mr. Bannon has cut his ties with Breitbart. And though many are convinced that the White House still exerts influence over its coverage, the website has also been critical of the Trump administration and angered Mr. Bannon.) It is not clear whether the White House has tried to influence the election in France in other ways. Mr. Bannon did not return a request for comment. Some European diplomats said the greater threat of interference was not from the United States but from Russia, which has used internet trolls and \u201cfake news\u201d to disrupt European elections, much as it did during the 2016 United States presidential campaign. American presidents generally avoid meddling too obviously in the politics of other countries, though there is plenty of precedent for their trying to influence outcomes in less obvious ways. Mr. Trump has little use for such diplomatic niceties. Soon after being elected, he publicly advised the British government to appoint the pro-Brexit leader, Nigel Farage, as ambassador to the United States. Even President Barack Obama, who tried to avoid being accused of meddling, got into trouble when he warned Britain, before the Brexit referendum, that it would go to the end of the line in future trade negotiations with the United States if it voted to leave the European Union. This week, Mr. Obama\u2019s aides played down the significance of a phone call on Thursday between him and Emmanuel Macron, the former banker and independent candidate, who urged the French not to overreact to the shooting in Paris. \u201cThey want France to be afraid,\u201d Mr. Macron said, sounding a lot like Mr. Obama.", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/21/world/europe/france-election-trump-marine-le-pen.html", "published_date": "2017-04-20T20:00:00-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "created_date": "2017-04-21T15:46:46-04:00", "abstract": "The French election is the latest European vote in which a far-right party has a shot at gaining power, though a win has yet to materialize.", "title": "France Poses Biggest Test Yet for Nationalist Ideas Like Trump\u2019s", "material_type_facet": "News", "section": "World", "item_type": "Article", "updated_date": "2017-04-21T15:46:46-04:00"}