{"abstract": "The presidential election on Sunday is one of the most consequential in recent times \u2014 not just for France, but for Europe \u2014 and one of the most unpredictable, too.", "source": "The New York Times", "text": "PARIS \u2014 For at least the last three French elections, voters in the town of Louviers, about 60 miles northwest of Paris, have cast their ballots for the candidate who ultimately won the presidency. So who are they going to vote for on Sunday, in the country\u2019s closest race in memory? \u201cI haven\u2019t decided. It\u2019s gnawing at me,\u201d said Charl\u00e8ne Hedoux, 30, a cleaning woman who was sitting at a bus stop this past week in central Louviers, which has a soaring Gothic church and bustling cafes. \u201cI have children. I didn\u2019t before. When one sees how these last few days have been going, it\u2019s not very reassuring.\u201d And that was before the terrorist attack on Thursday that left a police officer dead in central Paris and added yet another combustible element to an already volatile race. The election on Sunday is one of the most consequential in recent times \u2014 not just for France, but for Europe \u2014 and one of the most unpredictable, too. Even at this late stage, a remarkable 28 percent or so of voters remained undecided. The four leading candidates span the extremes of the political spectrum and are locked in a virtual dead heat. The potential outcomes are just as broad. Depending on who wins, France could seek to leave the European Union and recast security alliances with a tilt toward Russia. Some would have France take harsher stands on Muslims, immigration and domestic security. Alternately, France may elect a president who wants to shrink the ranks of civil servants, eliminate some job protections and reduce France\u2019s generous welfare state, making the country more competitive in the global economy but risking a popular backlash. Yet another possibility: a winner who aspires to sharply increase taxes on the rich and nationalize banks. The two candidates who receive the most votes on Sunday will compete in a runoff on May 7. \u201cThere\u2019s never been a campaign where the uncertainty was so uncertain,\u201d said Edouard Lecerf, global director for political and opinion research for Kantar Public, a public opinion research firm. \u201cThe mistrust of politicians is stronger than it has ever been.\u201d That mistrust appears to have caused many voters to veer away from traditional politicians in search of someone they feel is more principled, prompting even candidates who are insiders to claim they are \u201coutsiders.\u201d A majority of French voters have traditionally supported parties with established ideologies, either mainstream left or right. But traditional left-right allegiances are breaking down all over \u2014 in Europe, as they appear to have in the United States \u2014 as polarization grows. Globalization is a stark dividing line, with candidates on both the extreme left and right crusading against it, and more centrist candidates embracing it. Voters are looking to get away from politics as usual. That appears to have helped one of the leading candidates, Emmanuel Macron, a former economy minister who has formed a new party with a platform that combines pro-business, pro-European Union and pro-social welfare elements \u2014 a novelty in contemporary France. With allegiances to existing parties diminishing, some French voters find themselves torn between candidates who are diametrically opposed. A good example was Pierre Haux, a teacher at a technical school, who went to a rally last week in Lille of the mainstream conservative candidate, Fran\u00e7ois Fillon, who is under the cloud of a nepotism scandal that has led to claims of embezzlement. Mr. Haux said he was also weighing voting for the far-left candidate Jean-Luc M\u00e9lenchon, but worried that he was \u201ca one-man show.\u201d The fluidity of the race has allowed each of the leading candidates to claim to be on the verge of victory. At least three of the top four candidates have been in the lead at some point, making it almost impossible to say who is the front-runner. \u201cI will be in the runoff,\u201d Mr. Fillon told supporters confidently on Thursday, though the current polls make it look as if that would be a reach. What has been most striking is how voters\u2019 concerns keep shifting, from day to day and even hour to hour, almost as if they had been infected with the impatience of adolescents. That phenomenon is just one of several that pollsters said had made the race so unpredictable. In France, as elsewhere, the election may be decided in the provinces, in smaller and midsize towns and rural communities. Rural areas have proved especially unpredictable in recent votes, like Britain\u2019s so-called Brexit vote to leave the European Union and President Trump\u2019s election in the United States. In addition, the trend lines \u2014 whether a candidate appears to be steadily gaining votes, losing them or remaining flat \u2014 are of little help. Most recently they have shown the third- and fourth-place candidates, Mr. Fillon and Mr. M\u00e9lenchon, gaining ground, while the two in the lead, Mr. Macron followed closely by the far-right candidate Marine Le Pen, have remained flat or lost ground. For French voters, who are facing 10 percent unemployment, with levels closer to 25 percent for young people, the most pressing issues are economic, but even those can lead in multiple directions. Some voters attribute France\u2019s economic ills to poor leadership, others to globalization and still others to an influx of immigrants into the country. Unlike in other years, nothing in the current election has followed old patterns. It is a clich\u00e9 of French politics that voters follow their hearts in the first round, choosing the person they most want, but follow their heads in the runoff, choosing one less likely to do damage. That equation may no longer apply. Because the race is so close, voters may try to vote strategically from the beginning and not risk an outcome in which two extremist candidates reach the second round. On the other hand, if tradition holds true, and voters do follow their hearts, it is not impossible to foresee a final round where voters must choose between two candidates at the extremes, Ms. Le Pen on the right and Mr. M\u00e9lenchon on the left. Significant numbers of voters also appear likely to abstain or to cast a blank piece of paper to show their dissatisfaction with all of their choices. That, too, would seem to favor the nonestablishment candidates, whose supporters are more motivated to go to the polls. One such candidate is Ms. Le Pen, whose voters are passionate and have a deeply held conviction that she is the right choice. \u201cLet\u2019s look after ourselves before we look after others,\u201d said Catherine Rigaud, 56, who was waiting in line to enter the Zenith concert hall on the northeast edge of Paris where Ms. Le Pen was speaking in the campaign\u2019s closing weeks. Ms. Rigaud used to vote for the mainstream right but said she would now vote for Ms. Le Pen. She is unemployed and partially disabled and said that her 600 euro (about $640) monthly government support check did not cover her rent. One of those who might cast a blank ballot is Sebastien Orange, an art teacher who lives in Louviers. He is fed up with politicians and will put a blank ballot in the voting box, he said as he watched ducks paddle in the placid Eure river, which runs through town. \u201cToday, with social media, we know that more than ever they take us for idiots, with money to throw away,\u201d Mr. Orange said, referring to politicians and, obliquely, to the embezzlement charges hanging over Mr. Fillon and to accusations of financial malfeasance against Ms. Le Pen. \u201cOne forgets 1789 and why their heads were cut off,\u201d he added of France\u2019s former royalty, who were toppled and beheaded in the course of the French Revolution. \u201cThey stuffed themselves, they never declared their wealth and people say nothing to them. It\u2019s just shameful,\u201d he said. More striking to pollsters is how changeable voters have been. The shooting of three police officers on the Champs Elysee only increased the volatility. Voters who had been leaning toward one camp said they were now likely to cast their ballots for a different candidate, one they perceived as tougher on law-and-order issues. \u201cI used to hesitate between Macron and Fillon, but no longer,\u201d said Roland Boulang\u00e9, 79, who was walking in his hometown, Rouen, a picturesque northern city, on Friday. \u201cI decided I\u2019d vote for Fillon after the attack last night,\u201d he said, choosing the more conservative of the two. \u201cMacron is too young. We need someone experienced to fight against terrorism.\u201d Of 15 people interviewed on Friday in Rouen, about a quarter said they would change their vote; all had been in the somewhat-but-not-entirely undecided camp. The major role played by social media in the campaign has also added a new element to the mix even as it opened up new ways for polling companies to study voters\u2019 thinking. One company, Brandeye, which is based in South Africa and works for large financial institution, as well as candidates around the world, studies social media conversations to tabulate positive and negative words about candidates, and how frequently candidates are mentioned. The company\u2019s assessments, a \u201cnet sentiment\u201d for each candidate, differed markedly from those of traditional pollsters, but were similarly in flux. \u201cThe sentiment is very, very volatile,\u201d Nic Ray, the chief marketing officer, said. \u201cBut both Fillon and M\u00e9lenchon have more positive comments,\u201d he added, suggesting that those two could well end up in the second round of voting. A second round with that matchup has not been discussed much, but with four leading candidates, there are at least six potential combinations of winners in the first round, all of them within the realm of possibility.", "section": "World", "title": "As the French Go to the Polls, Uncertainty Is the Only Sure Bet", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/22/world/europe/france-election-voters.html", "updated_date": "2017-04-22T12:17:11-04:00", "published_date": "2017-04-21T20:00:00-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-22T12:17:11-04:00", "material_type_facet": "News", "item_type": "Article"}