{"text": "If you\u2019re like me, when it comes to French toast, you\u2019re a slosher, someone who just throws the ingredients together. Your method might go something like this: Slosh milk into bowl (I stock the 2 percent kind), add a couple of eggs and whisk until it looks right. Soak the bread, and sizzle in butter until done. Sometimes it\u2019s delicious, and sometimes it\u2019s disappointing. But it\u2019s rarely worth the $12 price and the hour\u2019s wait, sometimes in the rain, that the mobs sign up for every Sunday at brunch destinations like Egg, in Brooklyn, and Sqirl, in Los Angeles. French toast that good demands a recipe. And, fortunately, it\u2019s one that calls for no new ingredients, tools or technology. You don\u2019t even need stale bread. When I set out to make a travel-worthy French toast, my first call was to the ace of the new American breakfast: Jessica Koslow, the chef and owner of Sqirl. At Sqirl, the French toast is cut so thick that it\u2019s cooked like a steak: seared on the stove, then roasted in the oven. (It\u2019s also stuffed with a pocketful of jam.) I wasn\u2019t interested in adding more steps to my process, but, knowing that Ms. Koslow\u2019s judgment on morning flavors is spot on, I asked what home cooks could do to make their French toast more like hers. \u201cCream,\u201d she said immediately. Many cooks think of French toast as an egg dish, but restaurant recipes lean just as heavily on cream and milk, preferably whole. \u201cBut that\u2019s so rich!\u201d I hear you wailing. There\u2019s a lot of confusion about the fat content of milk. Whole milk seems like an indulgence on a par with Double Stuf Oreos these days, but the difference between whole and reduced fat isn\u2019t that great; a cup of 2 percent milk has five grams of fat, while a cup of whole milk has eight, and makes for much better French toast. While whole milk may not be as rich as one might think, cream, it must be admitted, is full of fat, with 10 grams in two tablespoons. But, Ms. Koslow said, \u201cA little cream goes a long way.\u201d She suggests adding a couple of tablespoons to the milk-egg mixture. And, she said, the bread shouldn\u2019t be soaked, only dunked, making it possible to use fresh bread, which is less absorbent. \u201cYou want to just fill the pores of the bread to make it supple and fluffy,\u201d she said. \u201cYou don\u2019t want to cream-log it.\u201d French toast that has been oversoaked stays damp and gooey in the middle even after the outsides are crisp and brown. A dip lasting for a few Mississippis on each side is enough to coat the slices and keep them from falling apart, especially if you\u2019re using fresh bread. Of course, stale is the traditional choice. Like panzanella in Tuscany or chilaquiles in Mexico, French toast is a classic in part because it uses an ingredient that people tend to keep around. But I have found thick slices of fresh bread to work just as well. They soak up slightly less liquid than stale bread, but, if the bread itself is delicious, the result is just as good. (Heresy alert: Maybe even better.) While freshness may not matter as much, the type of bread does. As a child of the food revolution, I was raised exclusively on whole-grain bread, and I\u2019m here to tell you that nothing ruins the custardy pleasure of French toast faster than a stray rye grain or wheat berry between the teeth. Sourdough, with its chewy crust and tang, is almost as bad. French toast is simply not the place for them. Basic white bread is the clear choice, as are brioche or challah, which have extra fat in the dough. If challah is hard to find where you live, go shopping on a Friday; many supermarkets receive shipments that day. I have no problem with packaged, sliced white bread, except that the slices are usually too thin. It\u2019s worth seeking out a whole loaf, so you can make substantial slices. Many bakeries, even the kind that grind their own flour and brag of centuries-old sourdough starter, stock whole Pullman loaves, white bread in an artisanal disguise. Whether French toast should be sweet itself, or unsweetened, is a matter of taste. Many recipes include sugar (alongside Grand Marnier, amaretto and other cloying concoctions) in the egg-milk mixture. I prefer it unsweetened, to let the deliciously basic egg-milk-bread flavors shine through \u2014 the better to enjoy with maple syrup, preserves, sugared fruit and the like. Either way, French toast is not a dessert, so skip the whipped cream and chocolate sauce. The final, irresistible flourish of restaurant French toast is in the lacy brown crust that adorns both sides. You\u2019re looking for the golden brown of caramelized sugar, not the dull brown of overcooked egg whites, which often gives the dish a tough texture and a sulfurous taste. Adding egg yolks to the custard is part of the solution. Dusting the French toast with sugar at the end of the cooking, flipping it often to build a crisp crust, is another. This step is optional, but it does make people mad with lust \u2014 for more French toast. But if a slosher you are, and a slosher you wish to remain, think of these instructions not as a recipe, but as a formula. For every four slices of bread, slosh in about cup of milk (or milk with some cream). Add an egg and an egg yolk. Whisk vigorously. Dunk quickly. Cook slowly. Eat immediately, and be glad you\u2019re not standing out in the rain. Recipe: Skillet French Toast Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/02/dining/french-toast-recipe-video.html", "published_date": "2017-05-01T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Food", "updated_date": "2017-05-02T16:11:21-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-02T16:11:21-04:00", "abstract": "You don\u2019t have to wait in line in the rain. A rich, fluffy version with a lacy crisp crust, is right at hand.", "title": "Restaurant-Worthy French Toast, Without the Wait"}