{"text": "It is showtime at the N.F.L. meat market in Philadelphia, as teams begin the business of drafting players and relentlessly flogging their product. The league oversees this phantasmagoria with a blend of Area 51 paranoia and P. T. Barnum hucksterism. And it began a few months earlier at the butcher shop that is the N.F.L. scouting combine in Indianapolis, where big young men were weighed, measured and poked, and had family medical histories and genes analyzed as if they were the finest Wagyu cattle. Coaches, scouts, coordinators and fans watched young men in spandex shorts run the 40-yard dash and jump and bench-press. Away from the cameras these young men submitted to M.R.I.s and X-rays and full disclosure of their mental health and prescriptions. Many results were quickly publicized. So a combine exam discovered that Takk McKinley, the ferocious defensive end from U.C.L.A., had a smashed-up shoulder. Everyone loved his \u201cgrit;\u201d shame that shoulder will lose him a bundle of money. Another day the league announced that the Alabama linebacker Reuben Foster had a \u201cdiluted urine\u201d sample, which either meant he imbibed something naughty or put his mouth to a fire hose and guzzled water constantly for 10 minutes. He was good-natured about his possible sins and survived with a collective chuckle from coaches and reporters. Foster later got snappish with a combine doctor, and the league disinvited him from the N.F.L. draft. (This obstreperous young man will get picked high in the draft; league behavioral and ethical lines are splendidly porous). The combine offered deeper humiliations. Each year league-hired wizards administer intelligence tests, known as the Wonderlic. And each year, including 2017, these supposedly secret scores are ritually leaked to reporters before the draft. This struck me as a premeditated invasion of privacy. So I counted my good fortune when the University of Pennsylvania Law Review landed in my inbox this week. In it, four law professors explored the way in which the N.F.L. and its teams demanded intimate details from would-be players and exposed much of it to the world. The law professors concluded that the league often \u201cviolates existing federal employment discrimination laws.\u201d Federal law prohibits a potential employer from testing, say, the cardiovascular capacity of a job applicant, or administering an EKG. The United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission also prohibits employers from using genetic information in making decisions about whom to employ. If employers learn any of this information, they are forbidden from disclosing any details. \u201cThey are never supposed to be asked about genetic and family medical history and yet this is going on publicly,\u201d Jessica L. Roberts, director of the Health Law and Policy Institute at the University of Houston Law Center, told me. Roberts was not knocked over by the argument that professional football is a secular religion and so exempt from mortal trespasses. \u201cPlaying professional sports is not the only job where physical fitness is very important,\u201d she noted. \u201cThere is no professional sports exemption.\u201d There are legitimate legal hairs to be split here. Michael H. LeRoy, a law professor at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign and a scholar of sports and labor law, noted that the players\u2019 union has negotiated draft protocols with the league, and that courts often defer to these agreements. He sees an argument to be made that the waivers signed by the athletes before the combine are legally binding. Players and their agents, he noted, have a stake in submitting to an intrusive battery of tests, as it allows teams to negotiate contracts without inhibition. If teams know less, teams will pay less. \u201cThey simply will not buy a pig in a poke,\u201d LeRoy said. To this, Professor Roberts and her co-authors counter that the young men who are invited to attend the combine are deeply vulnerable and likely to sign away their rights. No player who bypassed the 2016 combine was drafted in the first four rounds of that year\u2019s draft. So there is a race to the bottom. \u201cTo say that N.F.L. hopefuls have freely chosen to participate,\u201d the professors wrote, \u201cadopts a truncated view of what freedom means.\u201d I tried to hear from the N.F.L. on this, but nobody responded to my emails or calls. The exposure of players\u2019 medical privacy becomes systematic once they enter the league. Teams routinely disclose medical ailments. So there is the running back, his knees pounded to sawdust by too many years of too many hits, who fails his physical, or the linebacker who has sustained his fourth concussion and feels as if his cranium is packed with confetti. When they quit football, these players will have three or four decades of work life ahead. Will a future employer shy from hiring a man who gets splitting headaches from too many concussions? The results generated by the league\u2019s tests are not ironclad. Genetic testing remains in its infancy, caught between science and the Ouija board. No gene profile reliably forecasts the ability to catch a long pass near the far sideline. And mistakes are made. In 2013, Star Lotulelei, a 315-pound star defensive tackle from Tonga, was given an echocardiogram that revealed an irregularity. He was projected to go at the top of the first round and fell in the draft. As it turned out, he had an infection; a later M.R.I. test found no evidence of problems. By that point he had lost millions of dollars. There is a final, Orwellian quality to this process. The young men who show up at the combine and the draft already have survived years at institutions of higher learning. In service of the bottom line of these universities, these young men have wrenched shoulders, twisted knees, broken ribs, and ripped ligaments and tendons. And their heads got hit again and again and again \u2014 were all of these hits concussions? That\u2019s a connoisseur\u2019s distinction. And if these players survive all of this and get drafted into the N.F.L., they become eligible for a graduate course in the destruction of their bodies and minds. If federal law gets in the way just a little, well, wouldn\u2019t that be grand?", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/27/sports/football/from-combine-to-draft-nfl-prospects-are-treated-like-pieces-of-meat.html", "published_date": "2017-04-26T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Sports", "updated_date": "2017-04-27T17:58:51-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-27T17:58:51-04:00", "abstract": "The league weighs, measures and pokes its aspiring employees, whose medical histories and genes are analyzed as if they were Wagyu cattle.", "title": "From Combine to Draft, N.F.L. Prospects Are Treated Like Pieces of Meat"}