{"title": "Will the Government Be Open in a Week? Here Are the Dividing Lines", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/23/us/politics/government-shutdown-congress-trump-administration.html", "updated_date": "2017-04-23T20:23:54-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "section": "U.S.", "published_date": "2017-04-22T20:00:00-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-23T20:23:54-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "material_type_facet": "News", "text": "WASHINGTON \u2014 Congressional leaders and White House officials have steered the nation to the brink of a government shutdown that virtually all parties agree would be a terrible idea. While lawmakers seem eager to forge a deal before government funding expires Friday, the Trump administration wants to use the deadline as a point of leverage that Democrats \u2014 and at least a few Republicans \u2014 do not believe they have, raising the prospects of a shutdown that had seemed unlikely. President Trump\u2019s team is straining to demonstrate progress on key campaign promises like money for a border wall and increased military spending, hoping to project success before Mr. Trump\u2019s 100th day in office on Saturday. But any measure will require bipartisan support, and Democrats are unlikely to budge. The standoff continues a Washington trend, as banal now as it is nonsensical to veterans of the Capitol: legislative cliff-jumping in the name of brinkmanship, frustration or some combination thereof, with no clear endgame. The last government shutdown was in 2013, encapsulating an era of bitter partisanship and Republican opposition to President Barack Obama. The distinction this time is that the Oval Office, Senate and House are controlled by the same party. The confrontation also comes as Mr. Trump has said he will reveal a \u201cmassive\u201d tax cut proposal on Wednesday and has suggested advancing a retooled version of the health care bill that failed last month in the House. In Congress, where the completion of even one major task at a time can overwhelm its institutional bandwidth, elected officials remain highly skeptical of their own capacity to juggle successfully. Here are the dynamics at play as members return from a two-week recess: Since his election, Mr. Trump has settled on an amended version of a signature campaign pledge: Mexico will pay for the wall on America\u2019s southern border. At some point. In some way. \u201cEventually, but at a later date so we can get started early,\u201d Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Sunday morning, \u201cMexico will be paying, in some form, for the badly needed border wall.\u201d Implicit in this formulation: American taxpayers will be footing the bill for now if the president gets his way. The stance has complicated congressional negotiations that were, by many accounts, going relatively smoothly. Some Republicans have long chafed at the idea of shutting down the government over Mr. Trump\u2019s border wall or other administration priorities like beefed-up immigration enforcement and military spending, even as most Republicans express at least measured support for these goals. But administration officials have recently taken a more aggressive stance, and it is not clear how top Republicans like the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, and Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin will navigate. On a call with House Republicans on Saturday, Mr. Ryan said, \u201cWherever we land will be a product the president can and will support.\u201d The president\u2019s chief of staff, Reince Priebus, said Sunday that the White House expected Mr. Trump\u2019s priorities to be reflected in the final agreement. \u201cWe expect a massive increase in military spending. We expect money for border security in this bill,\u201d Mr. Priebus said on NBC\u2019s \u201cMeet the Press.\u201d \u201cAnd it ought to be. Because the president won overwhelmingly. And everyone understands the border wall was part of it.\u201d Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, has called provisions for the wall a nonstarter. At an unrelated event on Sunday in New York, Mr. Schumer said discussions were \u201cgoing quite well,\u201d calling Mr. Trump\u2019s demands \u201cthe only fly in the ointment.\u201d In 2013, at a time of peak conservative fury at Mr. Obama, some Republicans did not seem to mind positioning themselves as faces of the shutdown, which supplied a soapbox for ambitious hard-liners like Senator Ted Cruz of Texas. This time, at least so far, no one seems to want any fingerprints on an impasse. A shutdown hardly means that all of government ceases functioning: Many thousands of federal workers would be furloughed or asked to work without pay, but essential services like federal law enforcement work and emergency work would continue. Still, there seems to be little public patience for another round of Washington dysfunction. Republicans in Congress appear keenly aware that a shutdown would be blamed largely on them, despite Mr. Trump\u2019s attempts to shift responsibility to Democrats. And while many are unlikely to say so publicly, some Democrats would plainly relish the political upside of a unified Republican government ushering in Mr. Trump\u2019s 100th day by failing to keep the lights on. \u201cShutdown is not a desired end,\u201d Mick Mulvaney, Mr. Trump\u2019s budget director, said on \u201cFox News Sunday.\u201d \u201cIt\u2019s not a tool. It\u2019s not something that we want to have.\u201d But, he added, \u201cwe want our priorities funded.\u201d Seeking to squeeze Democrats, Mr. Mulvaney has offered a trade of sorts: $1 of subsidy payments under the Affordable Care Act \u2014 paid to insurers to lower deductibles and other costs for low-income consumers who buy plans through the law\u2019s marketplaces \u2014 in exchange for every $1 to pay for the border wall that the president wants to build. Mr. Trump has threatened to withhold the subsidy payments as a way to compel Democrats to negotiate. On Sunday, he wrote on Twitter that former Mr. Obama\u2019s health law was in \u201cserious trouble.\u201d \u201cThe Dems need big money to keep it going \u2014 otherwise it dies far sooner than anyone would have thought,\u201d the president wrote. Under former Speaker John A. Boehner, the House of Representatives sued the Obama administration to challenge the legality of the subsidy payments, saying Congress never appropriated money for them. A court ruled in the House\u2019s favor, and the case is on appeal. Democrats, fearful of what could happen to insurance markets if the uncertainty about the subsidy payments continues, want the payments to be funded as part of the agreement on a spending measure to keep the government open. Insurers have warned that without the payments, they would have to raise rates significantly for plans on the marketplaces or pull out altogether. Mr. Schumer\u2019s office has rejected Mr. Mulvaney\u2019s border wall trade, noting that Mr. Trump said Mexico would pay for the wall anyway. When he ran for president, Mr. Trump presented himself as a champion of coal miners, promising to put them back to work. Whether or not that long-term goal is realistic, a narrower issue involving retired coal miners looms as yet another sticking point this week. Senator Joe Manchin III of West Virginia and other Democrats flirted with shutting down the government in December because of a dispute over health benefits for retired miners who were set to lose their coverage. They ultimately relented, and the short-term spending bill passed at the time extended health benefits for the retired miners through this month. But now lawmakers from coal-heavy states want a permanent resolution to the issue. There is an escape hatch, at least temporarily: With the Senate returning Monday and the House on Tuesday, congressional leaders might give themselves some breathing room. Lawmakers could pass a short-term spending bill that would keep the government open in the interim, perhaps another week, while a longer-term measure is finalized.", "abstract": "The Trump administration wants to use the deadline as leverage on a border wall, military spending, health care and more, raising the prospects of a shutdown."}