{"text": "JERUSALEM \u2014 Hamas, the militant group that has long engaged in violent resistance against Israel, sought on Monday to present a more moderate public face with the impending release of a document that calls for closer ties to Egypt, waters down anti-Semitic language and accepts at least a provisional Palestinian state. Fragments of the document have been leaking out for weeks, but the official release will come at a telling time and place: Hamas officials, normally secretive, were set to hold several high-profile events on Monday in Doha, the capital of Qatar, an American ally expected to play a crucial role in any deal between the Israelis and Palestinians, which President Trump is pushing. The release of the document will come just two days before Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian National Authority, a Hamas rival, is scheduled to meet with Mr. Trump in the White House, as the sole representative of the Palestinian people. As such, the timing was another indication of the widening split between Mr. Abbas, who governs Palestinians in the West Bank as the leader of Fatah, and Hamas, which has control of Gaza. Mr. Abbas has sought in recent weeks to reign in Hamas, cutting salaries and refusing to pay for electricity, in a bid to undermine the group\u2019s authority. Gazans now have only a few hours of power a day. \u201cWhether it\u2019s a coincidence or it\u2019s connected, I have one thing to say: The Palestinian leadership is afraid of this Hamas moderation,\u201d said Mkhaimar Abusada, a political scientist at Al Azhar University in Gaza. \u201cBecause the P.A. and Fatah are afraid that by this moderation, Hamas presents itself as the true representation of the Palestinian people,\u201d he said, referring to the Palestinian Authority. The document is a distillation of various public statements over the years signaling a shift toward pragmatism that Hamas has adopted since seizing broad control in 2007 after winning parliamentary elections a year earlier. Four years in the drafting, the document represents the consensus of Hamas\u2019s top leadership. The document calls for Hamas to distance itself from the Muslim Brotherhood in an effort to build stronger ties with Egypt, which controls the Gaza Strip\u2019s southern border; reiterates the view of Hamas leaders that it is open to a Palestinian state along the borders established after the 1967 war \u2014 though it does not renounce future claims to Palestinian rule over what is now Israel; and it specifically weakens language from its 1988 charter proclaiming Jews as enemies and comparing their views to Nazism, though the new document does not replace the original charter. \u201cHamas does not have a conflict with the Jews because they are Jews, but Hamas has a conflict with the Zionists, occupiers and aggressors,\u201d the new document states. Experts on all sides of the endlessly complex struggle here say that the new document is unlikely to immediate change Hamas\u2019s position, especially because the group recently chose a hard-liner, Yehya Sinwar, as its new leader in Gaza and as it in no way recognizes Israel or renounces violence. But it highlights the deepening struggle between Hamas and the Palestinian Authority, both internationally and among Palestinians. Hamas is considered a terrorist group by the United States and much of the West, a status that has led to its exclusion from wider international talks about the Palestinians\u2019 future, and the document aims to make Hamas better heard on the international stage. Fawzi Barhoum, a Hamas spokesman in Gaza, said that the group had to move beyond its original charter to achieve its goals. \u201cThe document gives us a chance to connect with the outside world,\u201d he said. \u201cTo the world, our message is: Hamas is not radical. We are a pragmatic and civilized movement. We do not hate the Jews. We only fight who occupies our lands and kills our people. Mr. Abbas, 82, is increasingly unpopular at home, though he is the recognized conduit to the wider world, and his rivals are already publicly vying to succeed him. Marwan Barghouti, a popular figure among Palestinians who is serving five life sentences for murders in the second intifada, is leading a  hunger strike in Israeli jails, now two weeks old, that some experts say is aimed at raising his credibility as a leader. Mr. Trump has expressed a desire for a peace process that brings in Sunni Arab states that are aligned against Shiite Iran, itself allied with Hamas, even as Hamas seeks to become closer to those same Sunni states. \u201cThe P.A. and Hamas compete to get embraced by Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the rest of the Arab states, but it seems the Arab embrace is not enough for two women,\u201d said Fayez Abu Shamala, a Palestinian writer and political analyst close to Hamas. The new document, however, reveals a greater pragmatism and willingness to engage with the outside world, he said. \u201cHamas will be an influential political body in the next phase.\u201d In Israel, which has fought three wars with Hamas since 2008, the document was greeted with skepticism. \u201cNot even one mind\u201d will be changed in Israel, said Yossi Kuperwasser, a retired Israeli brigadier general who leads the army\u2019s research arm. \u201cNobody will be affected by this.\u201d Mr. Kuperwasser called it \u201csugarcoating\u201d on old positions that do not renounce Hamas\u2019s original charter and do not recognize Israel\u2019s right to exist. He did say, however, that it could be problematic for Mr. Abbas because the Palestinian Authority and Hamas platforms appear to be growing closer. In the document, Hamas says that Palestinians who fled or were expelled during wars with Israelis have the right to return \u2014 largely a nonstarter in successive peace negotiations with Israel. And it does not renounce violence; \u201cresistance\u201d continues to be a main source of strength and credibility. \u201cHamas refuses to hinder the resistance or its weapons, and confirms the right of our people to develop resistance tools and equipments,\u201d the document says. \u201cHamas confirms that the resistance leadership can decide the level of resistance and can utilize a variety of the different tools and way to administrate the conflict, without compromising the resistance.\u201d", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/01/world/middleeast/hamas-fatah-palestinians-document.html", "published_date": "2017-04-30T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "World", "updated_date": "2017-05-01T09:52:35-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-01T09:52:35-04:00", "abstract": "The militant group that has engaged in violent resistance against Israel is pushing for closer ties to Egypt and says it would accept a provisional Palestinian state.", "title": "Hamas, in New Document, Seeks to Show a More Moderate Face"}