{"abstract": "Readers suggest inviting Kim Jong-un to the White House, promoting trade with North Korea and withdrawing U.S. forces from the Korean Peninsula.", "item_type": "Article", "text": "To the Editor: Re \u201cMr. Trump\u2019s Loose Talk on Korea\u201d (editorial, April 17): During the campaign, shortly before the Republican Convention, Donald Trump publicly talked about inviting Kim Jong-un to the White House, to sit at a conference table, eat hamburgers and make a deal. This is still his best idea for dealing with North Korea; he should pick it up again. High-level diplomacy and mutual respect should be the guiding principles applied toward defusing the dangerous \u201ctough talk\u201d the world has endured from both leaders during the past weeks. MARK ZUCKERMAN, SYLMAR, CALIF. To the Editor: We urgently need to find a peaceful solution to the North Korean conundrum, and no solution would be effective without China\u2019s tacit approval. Here\u2019s my proposal: China would offer guaranteed protection of a denuclearized North Korea, with an agreed-upon long-term plan of economic support. The United States would recognize China\u2019s pre-eminent role in the region by committing to a gradual removal of its Terminal High Altitude Area Defense missile system from South Korea and equally gradual plan to reduce its military presence in the demilitarized zone and elsewhere in South Korea. China\u2019s concerns about any future threat from the United States would be addressed, and the United States would be relieved of a growing concern presented by the current North Korean regime. SYLVA APELIAN, NEW YORK To the Editor: After nerve-racking military threats and gestures between the United States and North Korea, our country should indeed consider economic strategies for defusing the conflict. Unfortunately, economic considerations usually focus on sanctions rather than incentives, on sticks rather than carrots. We could offer North Korea trade it badly needs. It makes some attractive items, like restaurant foods and textile products, and we could sell it items like trucks and grains at favorable prices. Whereas sanctions intensify hostile feelings, which are risky, trade incentives foster cooperation. It won\u2019t be easy to begin trade with North Korea, but it\u2019s worth a try. WILLIAM CRAIN, NEW YORK To the Editor: Re \u201cPence Talks Tough on North Korea, but U.S. Stops Short of Drawing Red Line\u201d (news article, April 18): North Korea has been a problem for as long as most of us can remember. During each of my 20 years in the Marine Corps, we participated in a war game, with North Korea as our hypothetical adversary. Now suddenly we are looking at the game becoming reality. North Korea is as unstable and menacing as ever. Its offensive capability with nuclear weapons may be increasing. So our current administration\u2019s answer is to threaten it? In the last two weeks our president, vice president and secretary of state have all threatened North Korea. What can they possibly hope to achieve? Threatening an unstable regime with a delusional leader? Perhaps we are the crazy ones! I\u2019ll offer an alternative plan. Let\u2019s get the hell off the Korean Peninsula. We are the provocateurs, not the North Koreans. We need to withdraw our forces and let the countries of Asia solve their own problems. RICHARD WESTMORELANDNEW ORLEANS To the Editor: Re \u201cU.S. Faces \u2018Cuban Missile Crisis in Slow Motion\u2019 \u201d (news analysis, front page, April 17): The writers neglected to note the absence of rational actors in the current crisis, clearly a marked difference between past and present. Nor did the United States in 1962 count on another country to solve the problem, again in contrast to President Trump\u2019s approach today. Nor has the president laid out any strategic plan aimed at solving the crisis should China fail. However, given his record of never accepting responsibility, we can count on his blaming China should matters worsen. CHARLES E. DEAN APPLE VALLEY, MINN.", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/18/opinion/how-the-us-could-ease-tensions-with-north-korea.html", "source": "The New York Times", "updated_date": "2017-04-18T15:07:55-04:00", "material_type_facet": "Letter", "published_date": "2017-04-17T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "How the U.S. Could Ease Tensions With North Korea", "created_date": "2017-04-18T15:07:55-04:00", "section": "Opinion"}