{"abstract": "Readers discuss a mom\u2019s push for her young son\u2019s independence despite her own trauma of abuse.", "source": "The New York Times", "text": "To the Editor: Re \u201cThe Wrong Way to Keep Kids Safe,\u201d by Michelle Stevens (Op-Ed, April 15): I applaud Ms. Stevens for doing what she believes will best allow her son to develop independence and for helping others see that doing best by our children does not mean shielding them from every possible danger \u2014 which no parent can do, much as we yearn to. Because my legal clinic serves the low-income minority parents whose parenting is disproportionately scrutinized by children\u2019s services agencies, I am acutely aware that many parents don\u2019t have the freedom that Ms. Stevens does to make the choices she believes best for her family. If low-income minority parents leave a 7-year-old home alone, as Ms. Stevens writes about doing, children\u2019s services would very likely take their children from them and consign them to foster care. In the wake of tragic child deaths, children\u2019s services has been charged by the media and politicians with the impossible task of shielding every child from every possible danger \u2014 espousing as policy the exact mind-set that Ms. Stevens compellingly argues turns out to be bad for kids. Children would benefit if we supported the right of all parents to make the decisions they believe best for their kids except in the rare cases of unequivocal danger. CHRIS GOTTLIEB, NEW YORK The writer is co-director of the New York University School of Law Family Defense Clinic. To the Editor: As a child care provider in Marin County, California, the land of helicopter parents, I observe many children whose growth is inhibited by overprotective parents. This is most apparent on playgrounds, when parents and caregivers continue to hold on even when kids are so ready to push forward. Children fall, bruise and even bleed, or they succeed. Both situations allow for growth. Most kids are so much more capable than they are given credit for. However, this article left me feeling disturbed. Michelle Stevens may be overcompensating for her own anxieties. She writes of her son: \u201cWhen he was 3 months old, I let him cry it out, so he could learn to fall asleep without my help.\u201d Infants communicate mostly by their crying. There are negative consequences in a child\u2019s development when these cries for help go unmet. Let\u2019s just start with feelings of abandonment. The purpose of sending a 9-year-old boy 3,000 miles away to a camp unknown to him with unknown people eludes me. Aside from concerns about abuse, if the child were to have an accident it would take hours for the parent to travel to his side. Children naturally want to please. I am sure this little guy is a great kid. It just might be, though, that he has learned to put his mother\u2019s needs above his own. MARY JANE MURRAYSONOMA, CALIF. To the Editor: When they were 8 and 10 years old, I took my boys from our home in Crested Butte, Colo., to New York City for a school year and received a lot of heat from other parents for allowing them to navigate the city on their own. Later, with money he\u2019d saved from summer jobs and no set itinerary, I allowed my older son, Jackson, to drop out of high school for a semester at age 15 and travel to the Mideast and Europe on his own. He claimed to be a burgeoning poet and that the experience was crucial to his development as an artist (by the way, his first CD came out a few weeks ago). He did finish high school and recently graduated from Brown University. My younger son, Joshuah, made it back to the city and is studying film at New York University. What\u2019s the point of this narrative? While our story is highly anecdotal, I agree with Michelle Stevens that it\u2019s good to err on the side of independence \u2014 and there\u2019s no substitute for experience. RICHARD MELNICKCRESTED BUTTE, COLO. The writer is the author of \u201cParents Who Don\u2019t Do Dishes.\u201d To the Editor: The latest news of sexual predators preying on children, this time by faculty at Choate, brings shudders and raises questions for parents and school officials. Michelle Stevens has suffered her own unbearable trauma in the form of predatory sexual abuse. She is correct to remind us that the vast majority of sexual abusers are people known to the child, not strangers. Nonetheless, the decisions she makes about her own child go against everything we know about child development. The idea is not to teach children how to be \u201cself-sufficient,\u201d but to be self-confident and able to turn to trusted others for help. This comes from trusting relationships with caregivers. As a psychoanalyst, I know that we all bring our histories into relationships with others. When we have experienced trauma, we bring our traumatized histories into our relationships. Trauma overwhelms the mind and the body. This can make us, for example, push our children into independence out of our own dissociated fears of vulnerability, rather than from any reality of the child\u2019s readiness to be on his own. MIRI ABRAMIS, NEW YORK To the Editor: It was distressing to read Michelle Stevens\u2019s prescription for raising independent children, competent to deal with the real risks of adult predators. I, too, am a psychologist with a specialty in trauma. Growing up in the Bronx in the 1940s, I was all too familiar with these risks, and raised to be an independent, spunky person. I learned to navigate, however, with some instruction. At 14 I began singing with a professional chorus that performed at Carnegie Hall, with weekly evening rehearsals downtown. What to do if being followed on the way home? Duck into a bar, my streetwise mother recommended; the bartenders, often off-duty police officers, will help you. And they did. What to do if feeling threatened by a man getting off at your subway stop late at night? Pretend to know some other stranger and ask if he or she would walk with you. Again, they did. And so forth. If your child is going to overnight camp, the camp may forbid cellphones and monitor the letters sent home. Arrange a code so that your child can tell you that something is very wrong: \u201cWish you could see the lovely trees up here\u201d will get no one\u2019s attention but yours. Children should not be left without the help of the adults as they gain these, sadly, all too necessary skills. Going it alone is not an option until they do. MARIAN KAPLUN SHAPIROLEXINGTON, MASS. To the Editor: This article certainly struck a chord with me. I feel sorry for kids whose parents are so protective they cannot go anywhere alone until a fairly advanced age. I, too, went away to camp for the first time when I was 9 years old. I didn\u2019t want to go, but by the end of camp I didn\u2019t want to go back home. I went to camp for four years and learned how to look after myself and be independent. In 1943 I stayed at home in Manhattan during the summer and my 12-year-old self roamed the city on my own. When I was 14 I spent a month with a cousin in Dawson Creek, British Columbia, traveling alone across Canada on overnight trains and staying with relatives in cities along the way. In 1946, at age 15, I took my first flight, alone, to spend the summer with my father, then working in London. I believe that my traveling this way at an early age was tremendously beneficial. One must learn to take care of oneself, how to spend money, and to gain self-confidence, profiting by the mistakes that were made. Perhaps this does not work for every child, but I consider myself very fortunate to have had parents who had the confidence to let me go without constant supervision. PAUL SILVERSTONE, NEW YORK To the Editor: For every kid who has been left to cry himself or herself to sleep, left home alone or allowed to roam the neighborhood unsupervised at a young age in the name of self-reliance, there is another child with poor bonding skills who struggles with lifelong issues of intimacy and is vulnerable to those who prey upon the emotionally needy. There is no slam-dunk answer. As parents, we muddle through as best we can. But I would prefer to err on the side of caution. And to comfort that crying child. GARRETT TOMCZAKGOLDEN VALLEY, MINN.", "section": "Opinion", "title": "How Much Freedom to Give Kids", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/22/opinion/sunday/how-much-freedom-to-give-kids.html", "updated_date": "2017-04-22T14:28:57-04:00", "published_date": "2017-04-21T20:00:00-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-22T14:28:57-04:00", "material_type_facet": "Letter", "item_type": "Article"}