{"text": "JAKARTA \u2014 The imposing, six-foot-tall painting is a potent symbol of modern Indonesian history: the country\u2019s founding father, Sukarno, cradling a dead, barefoot rebel killed by Dutch colonial forces amid rice fields and smoldering volcanoes in late-1940s Java. The fighter\u2019s bloodied shirt draws immediate attention \u2014 but so does a necklace dangling from the body: a Christian cross, worn by the independence martyr for the world\u2019s most populous Muslim-majority nation. The 2006 painting has become the symbol of a global initiative by the Indonesian youth wing of Nahdlatul Ulama, the largest mass Islamic organization in the world, that seeks to reinterpret Islamic law dating from the Middle Ages in ways that conform to 21st-century norms. Among other things, it calls for a re-examination of elements of Islamic law that dictate relations between Muslims and non-Muslims, the structure of government and the proper aims and conduct of warfare. Leaders of Nahdlatul Ulama\u2019s youth wing, known as Ansor, say that elements of Shariah, which Muslims consider divine law, are being manipulated by groups like the Islamic State and Al Qaeda to justify terrorist attacks around the world, invoked to rally fighters to battle in the Middle East and elsewhere, and distorted by movements that seek to turn Islam into a political weapon. \u201cThe classical Islamic perspective is dominated by views that position non-Muslims as enemies or, at best, as suspicious figures not worthy of trust,\u201d H. Yaqut Qoumas, Ansor\u2019s chairman, said in an interview. \u201cFiqh,\u201d or the body of jurisprudence that applies Shariah to everyday life, \u201cexplicitly rejects the possibility of non-Muslims enjoying equal rights with Muslims in the public sphere, including the right to occupy certain positions,\u201d he said. \u201cThis classical Islamic perspective continues to possess an extraordinarily powerful authority in the eyes of most Muslims, and is regarded as standard, orthodox Islam.\u201d Some interpretations of classical Islamic law teach that Muslims have a duty to seek out and fight Christians, Jews and followers of Zoroastrianism until they either convert to Islam or submit to its rule and pay a head tax. These interpretations have been enthusiastically adopted by the Islamic State. Also, some interpretations of classical Islamic law, and of certain passages in the Quran, forbid Muslims from having non-Muslim political leaders. Medieval Islamic jurisprudence, still regarded as valid by some, is used to justify slavery and the execution of prisoners. Some predominantly Muslim countries have been moving to reinterpret Islamic law within their borders, with some sending delegations to a 2016 international conference of scholars, religious leaders and clergy members in Morocco on protecting the legal rights of religious minorities living among them. The Indonesian initiative, however, aims to directly approach governments around the world, both Muslim-majority and otherwise, as well as at the United Nations, to achieve a global consensus on reforming what it views as archaic interpretations of Islam. \u201cThe challenge we face is not confined to religious views that emerged through an intellectual process conducted a thousand years ago. We are also confronted by religious and political authorities whose institutions are deeply intertwined with these views, and thus continue to inculcate such teachings among each new generation of Muslims,\u201d Mr. Yaqut said. Nonetheless, some Islamic scholars and experts note that because there are so many diverging interpretations of Islamic law and the Quran, it would be difficult to reach an international consensus on reforms. \u201cThere\u2019s a whole library of interpretations of jihad \u2014 Muslims must fight non-Muslim states to expand territory, for example,\u201d said Ruud Peters, an emeritus professor of Islamic law at the University of Amsterdam. \u201cBut since the 19th century, there have been interpretations followed by many Muslim states to only defend against attack from non-Muslim states.\u201d Another problem, scholars and experts said, is the cultural differences among predominantly Muslim countries in interpreting Islamic law. Indonesia, in Southeast Asia, for example, practices one of the most liberal forms of Islam in the world, while simultaneously having a secular government and Constitution, with full rights for Christians, Hindus, Buddhists and other religious minorities. Saudi Arabia, in the Middle East, however, practices the conservative Wahhabi Islam, and its government does not officially recognize any of its citizens as being Christian. \u201cIf you want to have only one universal interpretation, you have to deal with the cultural differences and also find an international central authority. This is impossible,\u201d said Abdel Rahman El Haj, a professor at Ankara Social Sciences University in Turkey. He added that while Indonesian Islamic leaders had good intentions, substantive changes would be successful only if support for them emerged within the Arab world. The Ansor initiative is seen as another move by young Muslims in Indonesia, as well as Islamic clerics and other Muslim organizations in Europe and the Middle East, to push back against extreme, conservative interpretations of Islam. \u201cThe general impression we sometimes get in the West about Islam is one of radicalization,\u201d said Rapha\u00ebl Lef\u00e8vre, a nonresident political Islam scholar at the Carnegie Middle East Center, \u201cwhile an equally if not more important trend is the ongoing struggle by Muslim clerics to redefine what Islamic law has to say about society and politics in ways deemed more compatible with modern life.\u201d", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/01/world/asia/indonesia-islam.html", "published_date": "2017-04-30T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "World", "updated_date": "2017-05-01T19:09:51-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-01T19:09:51-04:00", "abstract": "The youth wing of Nahdlatul Ulama, an Indonesian Islamic group, is pressing governments around the world to bring Islamic law into line with 21st-century norms.", "title": "Indonesia Seeks to Globalize Its Tolerant Brand of Islam"}