{"source": "The New York Times", "updated_date": "2017-04-17T20:37:56-04:00", "material_type_facet": "News", "text": "The notoriously moody governor was in high spirits. He had just come from playing co-host on his good friend\u2019s sports radio talk show \u2014 \u201cBoomer and Carton.\u201d The Rangers were about to enter the playoffs. The Mets were on the cusp of a promising season and had yet to blow it in their typical excruciating fashion. And he had just earned his first official title with the Trump administration: chairman of the president\u2019s drug addiction task force. So my interview with  Chris Christie this month to talk about his legacy as he enters the homestretch of his tenure as governor of New Jersey began with the charm jets on full force, from a politician quite skilled at the retail aspect of his job. He was introspective and pensive, eminently quotable and, of course, occasionally combative. But the governor one-on-one was less of a show than news conference Christie, who sometimes cuts reporters off midsentence and questions their intelligence or their experience. As we sat for nearly an hour in his Newark office, a nondescript corridor on a high floor of the Gateway buildings here, the governor seemed eager to talk \u2014 our interview lasting longer than initially planned. Indeed, throughout my political reporting career at The New York Times, I\u2019ve covered many different versions of Mr. Christie, though all came after the George Washington Bridge lane-closing scandal that derailed his national ambitions. For me, there was just-inching-out-from-scandal Christie, delicately dipping his toe back in the water far from home, alongside his even more rambunctious friend and fellow governor, Paul LePage. There was roadshow Christie, content to play second fiddle to would-be presidential rivals while he toured the country, also laying the tracks for his own presidential bid, as head of the Republican Governors Association. There was presidential candidate Christie, playful and bantering while also cutting and emotive, his home state personality ramped up for a new audience. Then there was defeated Christie, roundly rejected by Republican primary voters and left off the ticket by President Trump, returning to a New Jersey more than a little upset with how its governor had treated it over the past two years. But now, as a governor whose days are numbered, Christie is wrestling with his natural desire to always be at the center of the public attention and allowing the race to succeed him take center stage for his constituents. It\u2019s one reason, he said, that he has stopped doing his famed town halls. \u201cI now feel like this is not my year in that regard,\u201d he said of his favorite event style. \u201cThere are going to be candidates out there doing their thing, and I don\u2019t want to look like the guy\u201d who is \u201cstepping on their toes. They have the right to have the ability to make their case, without me overshadowing it anymore than I will by just doing my job.\u201d Throughout our interview, I found the governor as someone at a conflicted peace, both at ease with his record, and hyperdefensive of it as well. He came armed with facts and figures for any question I had regarding his record, often offering up points even when they were only tangential to the topic we were focused on. He was O.K. with losing the presidential election \u2014 \u201cI felt a strange sense of contentment for having lost, and I\u2019m a pretty competitive guy. But I just felt like there was nothing else I could do\u201d \u2014 while also making the case for how he could help the current administration. I ended the interview as I do with many politicians, asking them what they are currently reading in their spare time. Mr. Christie offered two books, both illuminating where the governor\u2019s mind is at the moment. The first was an extended biography of John Quincy Adams, who served in the federal government in nearly every possible role available. \u201cI don\u2019t want to say obsessed, but I\u2019m really interested in reading more about John Quincy Adams.\u201d The second book, a gift from his daughter, was the autobiography of Joe Buck, with a title that could have a different connotation based on which version of Mr. Christie was reading it: \u201cLucky Bastard.\u201d", "abstract": "A political reporter reflects on seeing different sides of the New Jersey governor as he faced the aftermath of a scandal and ran for president.", "section": "Times Insider", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/17/insider/interviewing-chris-christie-in-last-months-of-governor.html", "published_date": "2017-04-16T20:00:00-04:00", "title": " The (Other) Other Side of Chris Christie", "item_type": "Article", "created_date": "2017-04-17T20:27:18-04:00"}