{"text": "Fannie Mae, the government-controlled mortgage giant, is taking steps to make it easier for millions of student loan borrowers to own a home or refinance a mortgage. Student debt has become an increasing concern, amid worries that borrowers burdened by education loans are postponing home buying, causing a drag on the economy. The average undergraduate now leaves college with more than $30,000 in student debt, according to the Institute for College Access and Success. Fannie Mae, which buys home loans originated by lenders that meet its standards, said Tuesday that it was easing the path for student loan borrowers \u2014 and those who may have co-signed such loans \u2014 in three ways, said Jonathan Lawless, vice president for customer solutions at Fannie Mae. First, it is expanding its cash-out mortgage refinance option, which lets borrowers trade high-rate student loan debt for lower-rate home loans. SoFi, a personal finance lender that is not a bank, became the first to test the program last year, and now Fannie Mae is expanding it to all of its lenders. About 1,800 lenders sell loans to Fannie Mae, Mr. Lawless said. Mr. Lawless declined to provide specific numbers for refinancings under the SoFi test, but said there was strong interest among other lenders in offering the option. The broadened refinance program should help not just students who borrowed money for themselves, he said, but also parents who borrowed on behalf of their children or who co-signed for a loan. Private student loans \u2014 those made not by the government, but by banks or other lenders \u2014 typically require co-signers. In all, about 8.5 million people could potentially benefit from the expanded program, he said. Second, borrowers applying for a mortgage may now exclude debt being paid by others \u2014 say, credit cards or student loans being paid off by a parent or an employer \u2014 from their applications. That helps give them a better debt-to-income ratio \u2014 an important criterion in a loan application \u2014 and one that makes it more likely they will qualify for a mortgage. Finally, another change helps student borrowers who are on flexible payment programs, which tie monthly loan payments to a borrower\u2019s income. Previously, Fannie Mae required lenders to factor in higher monthly loan payments, rather than the borrower\u2019s lower, flexible payments, when calculating an applicant\u2019s debt-to-income ratio, which made it harder to qualify for a mortgage. Now, Mr. Lawless said, lenders may use the lower payment, which should help more borrowers qualify for home loans. (The rationale for the change, he said, is that if a borrower\u2019s flexible payments were to increase, it would be because his or her income had increased.) More than five million student loan borrowers are on flexible payment programs. Such \u201cnuances,\u201d he said, have been \u201cpushing people out of the box who should be in the box.\u201d Over all, Mr. Lawless said, people with student loans are a \u201cmuch safer cohort\u201d because they have made an investment in their education. Here are some questions and answers: Are there any risks with trading student loan debt for mortgage debt? Student loans are unsecured, while a mortgage is secured by a home. If all goes well with a refinancing, consumers wind up paying less, said Persis Yu, a lawyer with the National Consumer Law Center. But, she said in an email, if borrowers run into financial trouble, \u201cin the worst-case scenario, consumers may lose their homes.\u201d Federal student loans come with consumer protections, like flexible repayment options and the ability to request a deferment if the borrower encounters financial trouble. When the loans are refinanced into a new mortgage, those protections go away. Private student loans, however, typically lack those protections. What are current interest rates on student loans? The current rate for federal undergraduate loans is 3.76 percent; the rate for federal Plus loans, for parents of undergraduates or for graduate students, is 6.31 percent. (Rates are set each spring and take effect July 1, so those rates may change for the next academic year.) Borrowers with older loans, however, may have much higher rates, so those borrowers may see more benefit from refinancing. And private student loans typically carry higher rates \u2014 sometimes, in double digits. Mortgage rates have been fluctuating, but are still historically low. This week, the average rate on a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage was just above 4 percent, compared with 3.97 percent last week, according to Freddie Mac\u2019s weekly report. A year ago, the average was 3.66 percent. When do the new Fannie Mae rules take effect? The changes are effective immediately.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/28/your-money/its-a-good-time-to-trade-your-student-debt-for-home-debt.html", "published_date": "2017-04-27T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Your Money", "updated_date": "2017-04-28T14:35:27-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-28T14:35:27-04:00", "abstract": "Fannie Mae, the government-controlled mortgage corporation, is taking three steps to help ease student loan borrowers into homeownership.", "title": "It\u2019s a Good Time to Trade Your Student Debt for Home Debt"}