{"section": "N.Y. / Region", "source": "The New York Times", "abstract": "Janno Lieber will be in charge of high-profile projects such as the Second Avenue subway extension and a new train terminal under Grand Central.", "updated_date": "2017-04-19T18:40:42-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/19/nyregion/janno-lieber-mta-world-trade-center-silverstein.html", "title": "World Trade Center Developer to Oversee M.T.A. Expansion Projects", "published_date": "2017-04-18T20:00:00-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-19T18:40:42-04:00", "text": "A real estate executive who played a prominent role in rebuilding the World Trade Center complex in Lower Manhattan will join the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to oversee its large infrastructure projects, officials said on Wednesday. The executive, Janno Lieber, is leaving Silverstein Properties, a real estate firm, for a new role as chief development officer at the authority, which runs New York City\u2019s subways, buses and commuter railroads. Starting in May, Mr. Lieber will manage the agency\u2019s capital projects and real estate assets, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said. \u201cThe projects in this newly created portfolio are essential for securing the future of the M.T.A.,\u201d Mr. Cuomo said in a statement. \u201cBringing Janno Lieber on board is a perfect example of leveraging private-sector talent and experience to accomplish our bold and ambitious agenda to continue transforming the M.T.A.\u201d Mr. Cuomo, who controls the authority, has taken an increasingly hands-on role at the agency as he focuses on improving the region\u2019s infrastructure. Mr. Lieber will oversee several high-profile projects, including building the next phase of the Second Avenue subway, to 125th Street in Manhattan, and a new train terminal under Grand Central Terminal for the Long Island Rail Road. Mr. Lieber, 55, led Silverstein Properties\u2019 effort to rebuild the World Trade Center site after the Sept. 11 attacks. Before joining the firm in 2003, he served in the administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch and as an acting assistant secretary of the Transportation Department under President Bill Clinton. At the authority, Mr. Lieber will manage a range of projects, including developing a one-seat train ride to Kennedy International Airport; overseeing a proposal known as third track to expand a key stretch of the Long Island Rail Road; and modernizing the subway signal system to allow more trains to run, according to the governor\u2019s office. He will work on implementing a pared-down $29.5 billion capital plan, which includes about $5 billion for network expansion. \u201cThe important thing is he has both a background doing transportation work for the government and has, through his years at Silverstein, developed a real knowledge of the business of development and capital investment, which has been frankly missing from the M.T.A.,\u201d said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, an influential business group. At the World Trade Center site, Mr. Lieber had to navigate political considerations among state leaders, the Bloomberg mayoral administration, community groups and families that lost loved ones in the attacks. He now faces a new set of challenges: working with Mr. Cuomo, who is often at odds with Mayor Bill de Blasio on a host of issues; a Republican presidential administration intent on slashing the budget; and a riding public acutely aware that the system is not in good shape and needs major investment. Mr. Lieber is a subway rider who lives in the Ditmas Park section of Brooklyn, near the Q train line. In an interview, he said that he was ready for a new challenge now that several buildings have been completed at the World Trade Center site and that he was interested in being a part of Mr. Cuomo\u2019s building plans. \u201cGovernor Cuomo is talking about infrastructure all day and has demonstrated a passion to really make a huge impact on the infrastructure of the state of New York,\u201d Mr. Lieber said. Mr. Lieber will replace Michael Horodniceanu, the authority\u2019s longtime president for capital construction, who oversaw the opening of the first segment of the Second Avenue subway on the Upper East Side and the No. 7 subway extension to Hudson Yards on Manhattan\u2019s Far West Side. Several months after the opening, commuters discovered troubling water leaks at the Hudson Yards station. Mr. Horodniceanu, a jovial leader known for wearing colorful bow ties, has received acclaim for his leadership, along with complaints about the high cost of projects and delays. He announced he was retiring last month. In a letter to the board, Mr. Horodniceanu praised the two subway expansions \u2014 and the opening of Fulton Center and the South Ferry station in Lower Manhattan \u2014 as a \u201cgrand slam of megaprojects\u201d and said it was time for someone else to take over. \u201cWorking together, we improved the lives of many New Yorkers and forever changed the face of public transportation in the City of New York,\u201d Mr. Horodniceanu wrote. \u201cWe made history.\u201d", "material_type_facet": "News", "item_type": "Article"}