{"abstract": "The group lost its official registration last year after it failed to comply with new government requirements. It had been operating in legal limbo since then.", "updated_date": "2017-04-21T03:00:09-04:00", "published_date": "2016-04-12T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "World", "title": "Jordan Shuts Down Muslim Brotherhood Headquarters", "material_type_facet": "News", "text": "AMMAN, Jordan \u2014 The Jordanian police closed down the headquarters of the Muslim Brotherhood in Jordan on Wednesday, the group said in a statement. Warning that the closing would \u201cbring us back to the days of martial law with the absence of law and justice,\u201d the group said it would take legal and political measures to combat \u201cthese illegal pressures.\u201d The Muslim Brotherhood in Jordan lost its official registration last year after it failed to comply with new government requirements. It had been operating in legal limbo since then. The government did not comment on Wednesday\u2019s raid, but supporters noted that an offshoot of the original Muslim Brotherhood, the Muslim Brotherhood Society, was legally registered and had challenged the right of the Muslim Brotherhood in Jordan to participate in coming parliamentary elections. But government critics and members of the group saw the closing as a sign that the Jordanian government felt confident that it could join Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia in cracking down on the Brotherhood, which has long operated legally in Jordan and was considered the largest opposition party. The Muslim Brotherhood in Jordan has been thrown into internal turmoil in recent years, with a rift developing between older, more moderate members who want to calm tensions and more hawkish members who want to challenge the government on political reforms, rights and other issues. In February, 400 members of the Muslim Brotherhood in Jordan, including some of the group\u2019s founders and top leaders, resigned in protest against the group\u2019s continuing affiliations with the regional Muslim Brotherhood, based in Cairo, which they see as increasingly militant and marginalized. The Muslim Brotherhood in Jordan subsequently decided to cut ties to the regional movement, hoping to lure back some of those who had left. Many of them had already joined the Muslim Brotherhood Society, however, and many said it was too late to go back. The former deputy party leader of the Muslim Brotherhood in Jordan, Nimer Assaf, said by telephone that the closing of the headquarters was \u201ca dangerous step, because this group was against terrorism and had been part of this country for a long time, and such actions drive people to extremism.\u201d The closing may be related to regional politics, said Oraib al-Rantawi, director of the Al Quds Center for Political Studies, but the government was mostly concerned with domestic matters. \u201cJordan joins other regional players,\u201d he said, \u201cbut mostly the decision is an internal one with parliamentary elections approaching and the government feeling more like the group is not playing by the rules and registering legally.\u201d He added, \u201cThis will also impact the moderates and the doves within the group, and the hawks will say there is no diplomatic way to deal with this.\u201d", "source": "The New York Times", "created_date": "2017-04-21T03:00:09-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2016/04/14/world/middleeast/jordan-shuts-down-muslim-brotherhood-headquarters.html", "item_type": "Article"}