{"published_date": "2017-04-25T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "Ohio Woman Rescued From a Neighbor\u2019s Pit, Police Say", "material_type_facet": "News", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/26/us/kidnapped-ohio-woman.html", "updated_date": "2017-04-26T11:47:42-04:00", "text": "An Ohio woman who was abducted and trapped in a pit in her neighbor\u2019s shed was found early Wednesday after the authorities investigated reports of cries coming from the house\u2019s backyard, the police said. The police in Blanchester, Ohio, a town that straddles two counties about an hour\u2019s drive northeast of Cincinnati, said the woman\u2019s mother reported her missing around midnight. Around 2 a.m., they said, there were reports of screams and cries coming from a home on Central Avenue. Officers responded about two hours later, the Blanchester police chief, Scott Reinbolt, said at a news conference, and they found the woman trapped inside a pit in a shed in the house\u2019s backyard. The pit was covered by floorboards, which the abductor had weighed down with heavy objects to keep the woman trapped, the police said. The police identified the suspect as Dennis Dunn and said that he had been taken into custody and charged with one count of kidnapping. The woman was taken to a hospital. Mr. Dunn surrendered himself to the police willingly just after 8 a.m., walking out \u201clike he was going for a stroll,\u201d Chief Reinbolt said. The police said that the woman had likely been trapped for two to three hours before being discovered. They were unable to say Wednesday whether the victim and her abductor had had any previous relationship. Emily Noe, a neighbor of Mr. Dunn, told local reporters that she had known him for five years and that she had never known him to be violent or dangerous. Local reporters also found that neighbors knew of the pit in Mr. Dunn\u2019s shed, which they said was a well, several feet deep. Mr. Dunn lives in the house by himself, Chief Reinbolt said, adding that Mr. Dunn\u2019s father had come to the house while the police were still investigating Wednesday morning to apologize for his son\u2019s behavior. Previous reports in The News Journal of Wilmington, Ohio, indicated that Mr. Dunn had a history with the police in Blanchester, having called the authorities several times earlier in the month to report that he heard voices of people trying to break into his house. The police responding to the calls found no one, the reports said, but did find Mr. Dunn growing and smoking marijuana, which he apparently thought was legal, Chief Reinbolt told the local paper. The following day, The News Journal reported, he again called the police to his home, where he was discovered in an agitated state, holding a gun. He was eventually convinced to drop the weapon and was taken to a hospital for a psychiatric evaluation. He was released the next day.", "created_date": "2017-04-26T11:45:53-04:00", "section": "U.S.", "abstract": "Her mother reported her missing. Later, the police heard reports of screams from a backyard shed with a well in it. The man who owned it was arrested.", "item_type": "Article"}