{"item_type": "Article", "published_date": "2017-04-16T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Opinion", "abstract": "Readers say this could be an important issue for President Trump to make good on.", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/17/opinion/let-trump-deliver-on-mass-transit.html", "text": "To the Editor: Re \u201cNew York\u2019s Transit Apocalypse,\u201d by Charles E. Schumer, Kirsten Gillibrand, Robert Menendez and Cory A. Booker (Op-Ed, April 11): At least there is a consistency between how Republicans, like President Trump, and Democrats, like the writers of the Op-Ed essay, view the country\u2019s infrastructure dilemma. For Republicans like Gov. Chris Christie, though, spending money on a new tunnel between New York and New Jersey was anathema. So here is an opportunity for President Trump to show independence from his own party and do the right thing by supporting a popular Democratic plank. Who knows, his approval rating may even emerge from the depths. PETER SAMTON, NEW YORK The writer is an architect. To the Editor: Re \u201cDon the Builder Toys With a Promise\u201d (editorial, April 11): While President Trump espouses expanded rail service, including high-speed rail to match China\u2019s, the majority of the Republican Party is anti-rail. President Barack Obama\u2019s proposals for rail went nowhere in the Republican-dominated Congress. This is to be expected, as the airline, automobile and fossil fuel industries don\u2019t want any competition. Building more roads and updating airports and the air traffic control system will not alleviate our transportation problems in the United States. Rail, with its much higher passenger throughput, is the only way to avoid gridlock. Opponents of rail need to realize that a rational, multifaceted transportation system will also lead to higher profits for them, even if they do lose some business. President Trump needs to go with his instinct and his campaign promises and aggressively fund all modes of transportation. MICHAEL PALUSZEK PLAINSBORO, N.J. To the Editor: Thanks to Senators Charles E. Schumer, Kirsten Gillibrand, Robert Menendez and Cory A. Booker for supporting the Gateway tunnel and track project. I had the mixed experience of riding Amtrak from Philadelphia to Raleigh, N.C., on a recent weekend when the monopoly airline on that route wanted almost $600 for the short, nonstop trip. Besides, I adore traveling by train: It is relaxing and less polluting than driving or flying, and you can ride comfortably from city center to city center. On my trip, my fellow travelers and I talked about how much we want a viable rail system. Amtrak is severely disadvantaged with respect to other means of transportation: Because Amtrak does not own the outdated tracks that it uses, it cannot achieve speeds that are the norm in most of the developed world. Even worse, Amtrak trains must often defer to freight and commuter trains, waiting for them to pass. Train trips therefore take longer than driving. The Chinese, among others, are leaving us in the dust. As you reported (front page, April 9), both Guangzhou and Shenzhen have constructed new rail systems stretching hundreds of miles in the last two decades. Unless Americans want more inconvenience and fewer transportation options, we must make infrastructure improvement a top national priority. REBECCA HUBERT WILLIAMSHAVERFORD, PA.", "material_type_facet": "Letter", "updated_date": "2017-04-17T15:38:33-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-17T15:38:33-04:00", "title": "Let Trump Deliver on Mass Transit", "source": "The New York Times"}