{"updated_date": "2017-04-19T05:30:20-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-19T05:30:20-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/19/travel/love-travel-reader-stories.html", "abstract": "We asked readers to submit their accounts of romances experienced while traveling. Here are some of our favorites.", "section": "Travel", "published_date": "2017-04-18T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "Readers\u2019 Stories of Love on the Road", "material_type_facet": "News", "source": "The New York Times", "text": "For our first-ever Love issue, we asked four authors to recount times when love and travel intersected in their lives: Alexander Chee writes about a possible betrayal in Spain. Jami Attenberg recalls how a friendship deepened in Sicily. Sarah Hepola remembers a road trip \u2014 and an uncertain future \u2014 in Mexico. And Sloane Crosley looks back at a relationship that took three trips to kill.  We also have six writers recounting transformative moments that happened while traveling; a roundup of new hotels and resorts for all kinds of relationships, and a collection of readers\u2019 stories of loves found and lost on the road (below). A LITTLE OVER two years ago, I quit my job and went backpacking around Southeast Asia for six months. Near the end of my trip, I met a local guy in Saigon, courtesy of a dating app. We met for dinner at a rooftop restaurant with sweeping views of the city \u2014 and there was an instant connection. I couldn\u2019t believe how cute and funny he was. Our date lasted hours longer than I expected it to. We ended up spending the next nearly three weeks together. I met several of his friends and went to his birthday party. We even did a little weekend getaway staycation in central Saigon. The instant connection became even deeper. But I had to leave: It was time to return to the United States, get a new job and work on paying off those loans from law school. There were a lot of tears the night we said goodbye. I honestly thought I would never see him again. Once back in New York, I simply couldn\u2019t get this guy out of my head. I thought about him every day, so I sent him a message. The next day, I awoke to his reply. We started messaging every few days, which became every day and then several times a day before text messages graduated to phone calls and Skype. While Skyping on New Year\u2019s Eve 2015, I told him I was in love. He said he was too. I struggled with what to do for the next several months before I decided to quit my new job after only six months to move back to Asia and be with him. When we met at the airport, after nearly a year apart, it felt like something from a movie \u2014 only without the romantic airport kiss, because of the taboo there of being gay. Three months ago, after 10 months in Asia, I learned he\u2019d been keeping a huge secret from me. I was devastated and in shock. A few weeks later, I packed my bags and came back to New York. I\u2019ve been back two months. While it has been good seeing friends, I can\u2019t get him out of my head. With no job, it also gives me plenty of time to think about him and our time together. I miss him. I still love him. I\u2019m just not sure what to do now, but the more I think about him, the more I want to get on a plane and go back.  Ben Lambert, 31, New York THREE YEARS AGO, I traveled to Mongolia with my father. I was 40; he was 71. After two weeks of touring natural and historic sites, we set off on a fly-fishing expedition to the Onon River. Making a hunting or fishing trip part of the itinerary was how we would \u201cget outside of the tourist bubble,\u201d my father had said. It\u2019s how we\u2019d get a true sense of the people, the place. Ten hours after we left Ulaanbaatar, along with Hongoroo, the driver, and Zorig, our guide and translator, we crested a mountain to look down on the village of Binder and the Onon River valley. We spent four days fishing, eating, talking, hiking and exploring. We drank vodka and ate marmot. We listened to wolves howl in the midnight hour from a field of wildflowers, atop a mountain, under a star-splattered sky. And amid it all, a spark ignited between Zorig and me. On our final night in the ger (yurt) camp, I watched my father put himself to bed and then stepped outside to watch the half-moon rise over the horizon \u2014 and to discover what there was between this Mongol man and myself. He appeared at my side within minutes. He soon invited me into their ger to talk and drink vodka. After a spell, the driver and other men departed. Alone, Zorig and I kissed. Hugged and kissed. Then I bid good night and returned to my ger. The next morning, we drove back to Ulaanbaatar. That evening, our last in Mongolia, Zorig took us out to a fine restaurant for our last supper. While I tried to communicate my appreciation for a fun and exciting interlude, he invited me out. I felt that if I didn\u2019t go, I\u2019d forever suffer from a terrible case of \u201cwhat if.\u201d And so I went with him to a live music club a few blocks away. We drank. We talked. We slow-danced, kissing underneath the lights in the middle of the dance floor. A Western woman with a Mongolian man is rare. All eyes were on us. I\u2019m not sure if it was the vodka, the lights and smoke, the foreign music, the smell of his after-shave, or his imperfect yet adorable English, but I was mesmerized. In the morning, he delivered us to the airport. Refusing our tips, he shook my father\u2019s hand and hugged him. As Zorig hugged me, he whispered, \u201cI love you,\u201d into my ear. I thought he was crazy, or perhaps some sort of Casanova. But I did not sleep on the 12-hour flight to Beijing. His words, his smell, that kiss, his incredible audacity \u2014 he was all I could think about. Months later, he visited the United States. He proposed. That next summer, I sold everything and moved to Mongolia, and we married three months later.  Heather J. Caveney, 43, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia \u201cMAY I SIT HERE?\u201d I had failed to get a reserved seat for the overnight journey from Kolkata to my hometown, Katihar. And so I asked the only person with an empty seat in the packed train coach. \u201cOf course, you can,\u201d she said, moving her satchel to make room. \u201cThanks, just let me know when you wish to doze off,\u201d I said. \u201cI\u2019ll move to another seat.\u201d \u201cNo, I\u2019ll get off the train at 2 a.m.,\u201d she said. \u201cI fear remaining asleep through my stop, and hence will remain awake.\u201d \u201cSo, you don\u2019t trust your phone\u2019s alarm to defeat your slumber? I never do either!\u201d The giggle that followed led to the beginning of our first informal conversation. She turned out to be an arts and dance student from Kolkata who was traveling to attend a friend\u2019s wedding. We talked about our common interests: \u201cA Tale of Two Cities.\u201d The composer A. R. Rahman. Street food at Barabazaar. A walk across the Howrah Bridge. It was already past midnight. The train was now crossing the river Ganga on Farakka Barrage, the longest dam in India. The roar of waters gushing through the gates underneath the rail track was palpable. The river seemed to be spread out to infinity. \u201cI never knew Ganga was this majestic! I have never been to this part of India before.\u201d Her startled eyes gleamed even in the darkness of the coach. \u201cIs it a full-moon night?\u201d Indeed it was. The giant orb of the moon had emerged from concealing clouds into a clean, rain-bathed sky. The river glowed under its sheen, studded with a million tiny moons scattered throughout its surface, confined only by the horizon. Her gaze remained stuck to the moon, as mine remained to her. She lay down on the seat, and I deposited myself, cross-legged, into a corner. The train drifted southward, and now the moonlight, filtered through the window glass fell incessantly on her face. She silently crept her head into my lap. She knew I was looking at her, and smiled, her eyes still closed. I prayed for the train to be delayed, perhaps infinitely. That was not to be. The train chugged into her destination station precisely on time. I accompanied her with the luggage to the gate. I thought of requesting her phone number, but at that very moment, she got a call from the friend who was at the station to take her home. She disembarked as soon as the train stopped. Her friend, waiting half-sleepily, hugged her, grabbed her luggage and walked off. She briefly turned back to smilingly wave a goodbye, and moved on into nothingness.  Rohit Saraf, 28, Katihar, India I REACHED UP to put my coat in the overhead compartment. Thanks to the generosity of my in-laws, I would be staying in one of the best hotels in Paris, on the Rue du Faubourg St.-Honor\u00e9. They had insisted that I join them on this trip even though my husband had opted out, at the last minute, to take a small part in a regional theater production. So, my first trip to Europe would be in the role of daughter-in-law and not that of amorous young wife. I was excited and disappointed simultaneously. This was not the first time that my husband had chosen his career over us \u2014 something that had become a source of conflict. I was feeling less like a partner and more like a possession. His wealthy family sent him money every month while I struggled to pay my half of our expenses. I had become resentful, and this cancellation, of what I had hoped would be a chance to revive our increasingly distant relationship, was something of a last straw. The plane was nearly empty. I was alone in coach class except for a girl who looked like a model. As I stretched to put my new, light blue raincoat away, I turned my head. Leaning against the seats a few rows away was a guy, smiling mischievously and observing me appreciatively. \u201cJe peux vous aider?\u201d \u2014 Can I help you? \u2014 he asked. And with that glance, the course of my life changed. Susan Hamlin, 56, Paris WE WERE BARRELING along in our chartered, 36-foot sailboat on a passage from Carriacou to Mayreau, two islands in the St. Vincent and the Grenadines chain. I was at the helm, Michael checking the charts, as we approached the Grand de Coi Reef \u2014 nasty and sprawling. The sailing conditions were rugged that day with the seas cresting to 10 feet, the winds blowing 20 to 25 knots. While I was concentrating on the course and the depth meter, an even stronger gust snatched my hat and spun it out of reach over the churning waves before dropping it into the sea far from the boat. With the jagged reef so close at hand, there was nothing to do but carry on as my beloved hat and I parted company. The hat was nothing special, a little white baseball cap I used to keep the sun off my face. But it was a sentimental favorite, a souvenir from a 60th birthday trip two years before that Michael, my head-in-the-clouds professor of a husband, had planned for me with astonishingly uncharacteristic attention to detail. I cherished the hat both for the lovely occasion and his efforts to make it so. \u201cDon\u2019t worry about the hat,\u201d Michael said. \u201cWe\u2019ll go back for it as soon as we\u2019ve cleared the reef and are in a good spot to drop the sails.\u201d It was a harebrained idea, though I appreciated his offer. We were streaking north at almost 8 knots while the hat was disappearing to the west, carried not just by strong winds but by a heavy current as well. How could we possibly calculate a course that would pinpoint its location long after we had sailed away from it? Not to mention picking out a tiny white hat embedded in a mass of foaming white breakers. But even as I continued steering our course past the reef, I saw Michael pouring over the instruments and the chart. \u201cWhat are you doing?\u201d I asked. \u201cCalculating our course back to your hat.\u201d Twenty minutes later, I was still laughing at the lunacy of our fool\u2019s errand. Yet: We miraculously spied the errant hat, slipping and sliding in the waves. Putting our long-practiced \u201cman-over-board\u201d drill to excellent use, we rescued it with the boat hook. We were in high spirits at sunset that evening, celebrating our triumph with a good bottle of wine and a lobster in the boat\u2019s cockpit. Unspoken but underlying our celebration was the relief that, just eight weeks before, Michael had finished a course of radiation. We had three more years of fine and funny sails in our much-loved Grenadines before Michael\u2019s cancer came back to claim him. Hilary Cohen, 70, Ann Arbor, Mich.", "item_type": "Article"}