{"section": "Science", "created_date": "2017-04-17T17:37:18-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/17/science/march-for-science-voices.html", "material_type_facet": "News", "title": "The March for Science: Why Some Are Going, and Some Will Sit Out", "item_type": "Article", "updated_date": "2017-04-17T17:37:28-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "abstract": "In remarks submitted The Times, some said the president\u2019s posture toward science demanded a response, but others worried about the politicization of science.", "text": "The March for Science on April 22 may or may not accomplish the goals set out by its organizers. But it has required many people who work in a variety of scientific fields \u2014 as well as Americans who are passionate about science \u2014 to grapple with the proper role of science in our civic life. The discussion was evident in thousands of responses submitted to NYTimes.com ahead of the march, both from those who will attend and those who are sitting it out. Nationwide, colleagues and friends are debating the meaning of President Trump\u2019s election, and whether now is an appropriate moment for people in the sciences to speak out collectively. Here is a summary of some themes that emerged in the responses and in follow-up interviews. The March for Science organizers have stressed that their movement intends to be nonpartisan. But many of the responses made clear that people who are planning to march are motivated by the election of Mr. Trump and what they see as his administration\u2019s approach to science, from his proposed budget that cuts funding for the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Institutes of Health, to the president\u2019s climate change views and statements on the safety of vaccines. Jeffrey Anderson, an associate professor of radiology and bioengineering at the University of Utah, planned to fly from Salt Lake City to the march in Washington with his partner and four teenage children. \u201cThe wholesale disregard of truth and fact by the president and his close advisers, their devaluing evidence and the scientific method, is so extreme that I can\u2019t be silent,\u201d he said. Nadia Lelutiu, a laboratory manager working in vaccine research at Emory University\u2019s School of Medicine, has never been involved in a public demonstration. But she joined the leadership of the March for Science Atlanta because she said it was time scientists \u201cmade some noise.\u201d \u201cScience continues to be undermined in favor of political ideology and it is getting worse under the current administration,\u201d she said. \u201cThis threatens public health and environmental safety, and our livelihood now and in the future.\u201d Others expressed opposition to the march, seeing peril in what might come off as a partisan attack on the president and his supporters, even if they support some of its goals. \u201cThrowing our weight behind a protest movement may result in short-term gain, but it will more so contribute to the increased politicization of our work and further confound the public understanding of scientific rigor,\u201d said Daniel Sharoh, an American working on a Ph.D. in cognitive neuroscience in the Netherlands. He added that wearing the hats of activist and scientists at the same time damages \u201cour need for insulation from daily politics in order to conduct basic research.\u201d An entomologist at the University of Florida, Joe Funderburk, described his concerns with the endorsement of the march by the Entomological Society of America, which he warned harms the credibility of its scientists. \u201cI, like many scientists, am asked to provide science information and knowledge to policy makers,\u201d he said. \u201cIt must be free of bias. It must be free of political passion.\u201d Many acknowledged ambivalence about connecting science and protest. But the moment felt urgent enough to motivate them to march. \u201cI feel that as a concerned American, as well as a scientist, I need to advocate for the use of real, unbiased scientific facts in any policy decisions,\u201d said Michele Millham, who does research on personalized medicine at a company in Connecticut and will march in Washington. \u201cEven the concept of \u2018alternative facts\u2019 scares me.\u201d The March for Science was announced before the release of the administration\u2019s proposed budget. But concerns about the future of science funded by the federal government were on the minds of many respondents. \u201cPeople need to be aware that the quality of life and life expectancy they enjoy are largely due to scientific advances and the investment of the U.S. in the sciences,\u201d said Seun Ajiboye, a science policy analyst for the International and American Associations for Dental Research, who hopes the march will mobilize the public to support science funding. A number of employees of federal agencies that face cuts in the administration\u2019s proposed budget planned to march in Washington and at events in other cities. None were willing to be quoted by name, fearing retaliation in the current administration. They expressed a variety of motivations, including a desire to show the public what would be lost if scientific research were not supported by the government and the belief that government scientists deserve greater public respect. Others worried that an activist approach would backfire. Melissa Flagg, who served in the Obama administration as a deputy assistant secretary of defense for research, said the march was creating a \u201cyou\u2019re with us or against us\u201d mentality around research. \u201cIt has been tone-deaf to the complexities that underlie a growing distrust of science funded by a removed and distant federal government that locally does not appear to be in service of the public good,\u201d she said. \u201cTo rebuild trust we must consider new ways to serve the public.\u201d But one professor who has received support from the N.I.H. for her research said she would march in Washington because of risks to the next generation of scientific researchers. \u201cPersistent advocacy now by people like me is needed both to reinforce the value of science to all people and to help salvage continuity of scientific progress and careers for the next generation of innovators,\u201d said Alice Telesnitsky, a professor of microbiology and immunology at the University of Michigan Medical School. Issues of diversity and inclusion have prompted ongoing debate among organizers and supporters of the march and their critics. In response to a diversity statement, some critics accused the organizers of being deferential to left-leaning politics. Some wrote to The Times to say they would not participate for that reason. But a number of people working in science wrote that they felt unwelcome at the march because they believed that the organizers had done a poor job of addressing science\u2019s interaction with historical legacies like racism and sexism. Still others agreed that the march\u2019s organizers had not adequately considered these issues in their planning, but felt that made it more important to participate. \u201cOne of the reasons I will march, I\u2019m not afraid of the naysayers who think science is only for them,\u201d said Alfiee M. Breland-Noble, an associate professor of psychiatry at Georgetown University and director of the Aakoma Project and Lab, who will be marching with her children. \u201cIt\u2019s for us all.\u201d Emily Nocito, a graduate student and researcher at the University of Maine School of Marine Sciences, offered a similar sentiment. \u201cAs a female, I am marching for those who never had a chance in the sciences and for future scientists of all backgrounds,\u201d she said. Some scientists who will sit out the march questioned whether public demonstrations were the best way to appeal to people who are skeptical of science\u2019s role in public decision-making. \u201cI think our time would be better spent if we all took a science skeptic out for a cup of coffee to demonstrate that we\u2019re not all that bad,\u201d said Caitlin E. Littlefield, a Ph.D. candidate at the University of Washington who is researching how forests respond to climate change. But Daniel Bullock, a professor of psychological and brain sciences at Boston University, who will march with his wife and son in Washington, said that the event could help scientists better connect with the public. \u201cThe march is a first chance to work on how to frame key messages and how to organize a nationwide campaign to broaden understanding of inconvenient truths that are being ignored by many policy makers,\u201d he said. But getting organized as scientists was also important to some participants, who said that it was time to assert their role as a group. \u201cCommunities are not taken seriously politically until they act as a group and make noise,\u201d Mary Mangan of Somerville, Mass., who is the president of OpenHelix, a company that trains people to use genomics software. \u201cI don\u2019t think quiet reserve is serving us well anymore. Health issues, food issues, climate issues, energy issues \u2014 we have as much right to speak to these as anyone else, and added responsibility to do so, in my opinion.\u201d And ultimately, some said, doing nothing was not an option. \u201cI\u2019m tired of saying we must make the best of a bad situation,\u201d said Emily Nicholson, a geologist for an engineering firm in New Jersey who is driving down to Washington for the march. \u201cI recently became a scientist in order to leave a positive mark on the world, and it\u2019s time I try harder to.\u201d", "published_date": "2017-04-16T20:00:00-04:00"}