{"abstract": "Facebook\u2019s chief executive introduced an augmented reality platform that will allow people to view and digitally manipulate the world around them.", "item_type": "Article", "text": "SAN JOSE, Calif. \u2014 Facebook\u2019s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, has long rued the day that Apple and Google beat him to building smartphones, which now underpin many people\u2019s digital lives. Ever since, he has searched for modern computing\u2019s next frontier and how to be a part of it from the start. Now, Mr. Zuckerberg is betting he has found it: the real world. On Tuesday, Mr. Zuckerberg introduced what he positioned as the first mainstream augmented reality platform, a way for people to view and digitally manipulate the physical world around them through the lens of their smartphone cameras. What that means today is fairly limited. Augmented reality is nascent \u2014 people can add simple flourishes on top of their photos or videos, like sticking a pixelated blue beard on a selfie, or adding puppy dog stickers in the front yard of a photo of their house. But in Mr. Zuckerberg\u2019s telling, there are few boundaries for how this technology would evolve. He said he envisioned a world in which people can eventually point smartphone cameras at a bowl of cereal and have an app create tiny sharks swimming in the bowl of milk. Friends can leave virtual notes for one another on the walls outside their favorite restaurants, noting which menu item is the most delicious. Apps like Pokemon Go, the breakout augmented reality hit that went viral globally last year, are just the beginning for Mr. Zuckerberg. One day, he mused, household objects could perhaps be replaced entirely by software. \u201cThink about how many of the things around us don\u2019t actually need to be physical,\u201d Mr. Zuckerberg said in an interview last week. \u201cInstead of a $500 TV sitting in front of us, what\u2019s to keep us from one day having it be a $1 app?\u201d Facebook does not expect to build all of these software experiences itself. At its annual developer conference on Tuesday, the social network called for computer programmers to assist the company by building augmented reality-based apps to work with what Facebook calls its Camera Effects Platform. Facebook announced a new set of tools to help developers and will begin the initiative with a small handful of partners in a closed test. Mr. Zuckerberg\u2019s goal is ambitious \u2014 perhaps overly so. Many augmented reality efforts have flopped in the past, including Google\u2019s much-hyped attempt around spectacles with the technology, known as Google Glass. Facebook has previously gambled on other futuristic technologies \u2014 including virtual reality with a $2 billion purchase of Oculus, the virtual reality goggles maker, in 2014 \u2014 but Mr. Zuckerberg has acknowledged that it has had difficulty finding traction. The chief executive is also grappling with wide range of issues that have the potential to distract Facebook. The company is under scrutiny for its position as an arbiter of mass media, and questions as to what role Facebook should play in policing content across its platform of nearly two billion regular users. That issue was thrust to the forefront this week after a man posted on his Facebook page a video of a murder he committed. Still, Mr. Zuckerberg said he intended to create the next major app ecosystem that would work with Facebook\u2019s in-app camera. If successful, Facebook could be in a position similar to that of Apple, which relies on the hundreds of millions of apps in its store to keep users buying the company\u2019s smartphones and tablets every year. Facebook, in turn, wants developers to build experiences that entice people to visit its website and apps on a daily \u2014 if not hourly \u2014 basis. \u201cJust like Apple built the iPod and iTunes ecosystem before the iPhone, you want to make sure there\u2019s a set of content there, even if there\u2019s not everything,\u201d Mr. Zuckerberg said. Facebook has been building toward this goal for some time. Mr. Zuckerberg has spent the past 18 months reorganizing his company and its suite of consumer apps \u2014 Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger \u2014 around a new interface, focused almost entirely on the camera. Slowly, the company has downplayed the role of text inside its apps, instead encouraging people to take and send photos and videos to one another by accessing the in-app camera features. In time, Facebook hopes that companies like Electronic Arts, Nike and Warner Brothers \u2014 which are part of the initial set of partners \u2014 will be the ones to bring immersive augmented reality experiences to Facebook\u2019s platform. One early partner app is Giphy Thoughts, made by Giphy, a short-form video start-up that acts as a search engine for animated GIFs. With Giphy Thoughts, for instance, people can attach cartoon thought bubbles above the heads of people they view through their Facebook camera lens. \u201cIt goes back to creative expression,\u201d said David Rosenberg, director of business development at Giphy. \u201cFacebook Camera is just going to be this massive audience of people ready to make deeply personal content they can share with their friends.\u201d Facebook\u2019s past attempts to be at the center of an apps ecosystem have not been particularly successful. In 2012, the company released App Center, a central hub within Facebook to discover third-party apps \u2014 like Farmville, Goodreads and Spotify \u2014 and use them on the Facebook desktop site. But that initiative fizzled as consumers slowly shifted away from desktops to smartphones. One year later, Facebook tried to emulate Apple and Google\u2019s platform strategy more directly with its own Facebook-branded smartphone, called Facebook Home. The phone, a product of a partnership with AT&T and HTC, sold poorly and was eventually abandoned. Then came Facebook\u2019s most aggressive move, with the 2014 acquisition of Oculus. Facebook is spending hundreds of millions of dollars more investing in V.R. content and apps in the hopes that it will mature into a full-fledged ecosystem similar to Apple\u2019s App Store, but sales of the Oculus Rift goggles have been slow. Mr. Zuckerberg has said the efforts with Oculus will take longer than he and his team initially believed, and likely billions of dollars more in investment. But in last week\u2019s interview, he said that some of the technology acquired in the Oculus purchase have helped create the seeds of the new augmented reality platform. Facebook is not alone in its quest to establish a foothold in augmented reality. Hours before Facebook\u2019s developer conference on Tuesday morning, Snapchat \u2014 a professed \u201ccamera company\u201d and Facebook\u2019s direct competitor for attention \u2014 announced its own take on augmented reality, offering new 3-D lenses for use inside of its app. The effect is similar to some of the ideas Mr. Zuckerberg has described. Snapchat also offers Spectacles, a pair of glasses that allow users to record video from their face. Another dark horse is Magic Leap, the secretive augmented reality start-up that has an enormous investment from Google and Alibaba and is working on hardware to offer a similar experience. The company has yet to unveil an official product. For the near term, however, Mr. Zuckerberg sees the smartphone camera as the first step forward. \u201cWe want to get to this world in the future where you eventually have glasses or contact lenses where you can mix digital or physical objects in the digital world,\u201d Mr. Zuckerberg said.", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/18/technology/mark-zuckerberg-sees-augmented-reality-ecosystem-in-facebook.html", "source": "The New York Times", "updated_date": "2017-04-18T13:28:37-04:00", "material_type_facet": "News", "published_date": "2017-04-17T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "Mark Zuckerberg Sees Augmented Reality Ecosystem in Facebook", "created_date": "2017-04-18T13:28:37-04:00", "section": "Technology"}