{"text": "It began as a pagan commemoration of the transition from spring to summer, replete with maypole dancing. For many Christians, it kicks off a month devoted to veneration of the Virgin Mary. But for most of the world these days, May 1 is best known as International Workers\u2019 Day, and a general occasion for political protest. (A notable exception is the United States, where Labor Day is celebrated in September.) Here is how Monday unfolded around the world. More than 70 people were detained as they tried to march to Taksim Square in central Istanbul to demand better pay and working conditions, defying a ban on May Day events. The country has moved in a sharply authoritarian direction under President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, whose powers will be strengthened after a recent referendum amending the Constitution. Members of the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions marched in Seoul holding red umbrellas, which symbolize the right of workers to form labor unions. Among their demands: that companies stop using temporary employees. The trend of circumventing traditional labor protections by classifying workers as independent contractors or as freelance labor is a major theme of the protests. Members of the Communist Party-affiliated All-Workers Militant Front marked the holiday with a 24-hour nationwide strike and protests against looming spending cuts that were demanded by the country\u2019s creditors in return for a third government bailout. Nearly a decade after the start of the global financial crisis, Greece continues to grapple with a debt burden that many economists view as unsustainable in the long run. Thousands of workers marched toward the presidential palace in Jakarta to demand that the government raise minimum wages, limit outsourcing, provide free health care and improve working conditions. Indonesia, the world\u2019s fourth most-populous nation, is trying to build a robust middle class. Protesters marched in traditional May Day rallies across the country. France will hold a presidential runoff election on Sunday, and the two candidates \u2014 Marine Le Pen, leader of the far-right National Front, and Emmanuel Macron, an independent centrist and former economy minister \u2014 campaigned vigorously on Monday. Workers marched in Nairobi. As in much of the developing world, workers are becoming a potent political force with former agricultural laborers moving to sprawling cities for jobs in manufacturing and service industries.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/01/world/europe/may-day-protests.html", "published_date": "2017-04-30T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "World", "updated_date": "2017-05-01T11:01:30-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-01T11:01:30-04:00", "abstract": "Also known as International Workers\u2019 Day, it is an occasion for political demonstrations in much of the world.", "title": "From France to Indonesia, Marking May Day With Protests"}