{"created_date": "2017-04-26T17:54:15-04:00", "material_type_facet": "News", "item_type": "Article", "abstract": "The pilfering of gasoline for sale on the black market has soared in recent years, backed by criminal groups using bribery and violence.", "source": "The New York Times", "text": "SAN SALVADOR HUIXCOLOTLA, Mexico \u2014 Some of the day\u2019s first customers pull into the produce market at dawn, but not with fruit and vegetables on their minds. They\u2019re looking for cheap, stolen gasoline. On the edge of the market, dozens of vendors have set up shop, with stacks of five-gallon containers full of stolen fuel and rubber hoses to siphon it. \u201cHow much, cousin?\u201d the vendors holler as they swarm the hundreds of motorists who drive through every day. The price is less than half what customers would pay at nearby gas stations. The brisk, open gas trade is one of the more obvious manifestations of Mexico\u2019s national fuel-theft epidemic. Thieves are now siphoning gasoline and diesel fuel at record-high rates from the system \u2014 often by drilling taps into pipelines under cover of darkness \u2014 and are selling it on the black market around Mexico and perhaps even in the United States and Central America. It\u2019s a worsening crisis that is robbing the federal government of more than a billion dollars a year in stolen fuel and imperiling Mexico\u2019s efforts to attract foreign investment in its energy industry as it ends more than seven decades of state monopoly. And the government seems unable to stop it. \u201cThe problem comes down to the fact that the rule of law is weak in Mexico,\u201d said Dwight Dyer, an analyst of the Mexican energy sector. \u201cThis is a part of the market where the rule of law really needs to work for the private sector to say, \u2018I really want to invest.\u2019\u201d The relentless rise in thefts has been driven by the increasing involvement and sophistication of some of the nation\u2019s largest, best organized and most ruthless criminal organizations, which have used bribery and violence to co-opt officials at all levels of government, including workers at Pemex, the state-owned energy company. The criminal groups have also cultivated widespread support among local residents, some of whom have found lucrative employment with the gangs and many of whom are happy to pay the far lower prices for black-market fuel. In some places \u2014 particularly here in Puebla State, which has emerged as the epicenter of the crisis \u2014 the thieves are viewed as Robin Hood-style heroes who have changed the fortunes of once-impoverished towns overnight as proceeds from the trade flow into local economies. More than 1.47 million gallons of fuel a day are stolen from throughout the system, from the refineries to the gas pump, federal officials said. From time to time, even tanker trucks are hijacked. While the amount taken is equivalent to 1 to 2 percent of the total volume transported every day, it has an outsize impact on the ability of the Mexican government to attract private investors. \u201cIt\u2019s really a barrier for business,\u201d said Carlos Murrieta Cummings, general director of industrial transformation for Pemex. \u201cI don\u2019t want to sound optimistic because the problem is very hard. I don\u2019t want to minimize the problem.\u201d \u201cWe need to take care of this from the production fields, at the refineries, at the distribution center, terminals, pipelines \u2014 everything,\u201d he added. \u201cWe have this problem in many different places, not just in one part.\u201d For years a nagging but manageable issue for Pemex, gasoline theft began to worsen in the late 2000s amid an assault on organized crime led by Felipe Calder\u00f3n, then the president. His strategy to dismantle transnational drug trafficking organizations created smaller subgroups that diversified their criminal enterprises, branching into gasoline theft. With international gas prices soaring, fuel theft became particularly lucrative, officials said, and often much easier than trafficking drugs. But the business could also be deadly, with illegal taps occasionally causing explosions. In 2010, at least 27 people were killed, scores injured and numerous homes destroyed when a pipeline blew up in San Mart\u00edn Texmelucan de Labastida, a city in Puebla State. Despite President Calder\u00f3n\u2019s vows to crush the fuel rings, they continued to grow. \u201cThe truth is that Pemex didn\u2019t give much importance to it,\u201d said Eduardo Guerrero, a security consultant in Mexico City. \u201cIt was regarded as marginal losses.\u201d In 2009, the authorities discovered 462 illegal taps on the nation\u2019s pipelines and estimated that fewer than 126,000 gallons a day were being lost. Last year they discovered 6,873 taps \u2014 a nearly 15-fold increase. Gangs most often target the 5,600 miles of pipeline that snake throughout Mexico and often pass through sparsely inhabited rural regions, carrying gasoline from refineries to distribution points. The pipelines are mostly buried but at a shallow depth, and they are easily uncovered with a shovel. The thieves perforate the pipelines with high-powered drills and install taps from which they draw the fuel. They have even dug tunnels to the pipelines and diverted fuel through rubber hoses to stolen tanker trucks far away. The plunder is then sold in markets like the one in San Salvador Huixcolotla, on roadsides, door-to-door or to shady gas station owners who then resell it. Some stolen gas has also found its way into the United States and south into Central America, officials and analysts said. In Puebla, the authorities discovered more than 1,500 illegal taps on pipelines last year, nearly double the number found in 2015 and nearly a quarter of the national total, Pemex officials said. The crime is concentrated in this region of the state, a cluster of rural municipalities known as the Tri\u00e1ngulo Rojo, or Red Triangle, through which a major pipeline carries gasoline and diesel fuel to Mexico City from a refinery and a port in the adjoining state of Veracruz. The surge in criminal employment and its proceeds has brought a sharp rise in income for many households in this impoverished region. Wages from farming, historically the main occupation here, cannot compete. Where a farmhand might earn $7 to $11 a day, residents said, a lookout for the fuel thieves can bring in upward of $54 a day. On special occasions like Mother\u2019s Day, the gangs will drive into villages in trucks loaded with gifts for townspeople, including televisions, blenders and other home appliances. The gangs have also started to pay for medical care and other community services. A top municipal police official in the Red Triangle, requesting anonymity out of fear that he would be killed for speaking publicly about the issue, said that local loyalty to the thieves was so deep that his officers were often impeded from entering certain neighborhoods even when responding to problems that had nothing to do with fuel theft. The crime has become such a central part of life in this region of Puebla that it has been celebrated in song, much as drug traffickers and their exploits have been lionized in narcocorridos. Tamara Alc\u00e1ntara, a singer from the town of Tecamachalco in Puebla, has become a minor celebrity in the area for two recordings she posted on YouTube about gas thieves, known locally as \u201chuachicoleros.\u201d In a recent interview, Ms. Alc\u00e1ntara sought to distance herself from gas thievery. Her music, she said, was simply trying to capture the cultural moment. \u201cIt\u2019s where we live,\u201d she said. But the criminal groups\u2019 main weapon is corruption. From Pemex workers tipping off criminals about the most opportune time to drill, to local police officers paid to look the other way, the gas thieves have built their operations with widespread bribery backed by violence. The criminals\u2019 offer is clear-cut, said a former municipal police official in the Red Triangle who requested anonymity: You either collaborate and take money, or you resist and take a bullet. Last month, the mayor of the town of Atzitzintla was detained along with 86 other people in connection with the kidnapping and murder of three government investigators by a criminal group involved in gas theft. The regional press in Puebla has reported that several other mayors have been under investigation for possible links to gas theft. The mayors of six municipalities where the stolen gas rings have won a lot of public support did not respond to repeated requests for interviews. In an acknowledgment that the local police were too compromised and overwhelmed to combat fuel theft effectively, the federal government deployed about 500 security personnel to the Red Triangle in recent weeks. Scores of arrests have followed, but the theft has not abated. Mr. Guerrero, the security consultant, predicted that further pressure in the Red Triangle might eventually set off a social uprising, including strikes and blockades. \u201cWith every passing day, more families, more people depend on this market,\u201d he said. \u201cForget about it. It\u2019s going to be a nightmare when the government tries to control the market.\u201d", "title": "In Mexico, an Epidemic of Fuel Thefts Becomes a Crisis", "section": "World", "updated_date": "2017-04-26T17:54:15-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/26/world/americas/mexico-fuel-theft-crisis.html", "published_date": "2017-04-25T20:00:00-04:00"}