{"text": "REDMOND, Wash. \u2014 Last week, Satya Nadella, the chief executive of Microsoft, slipped on a glove made of cardboard and clenched his hand into a fist, causing a robotic hand with fingers made of drinking straws to mimic his movements. The glove was one of several engineering projects built in a makeshift laboratory on Microsoft\u2019s campus. The company spent the past year talking to thousands of teachers and designing high-tech experiments that require mostly low-cost parts. It will give the designs to schools for free so teachers can use them in their lesson plans. The projects are part of a major push the company announced Tuesday at an event in New York to make its products more attractive to school administrators, students and teachers. The push includes a new version of Microsoft\u2019s Windows operating system for classrooms, tweaks to its Office applications and a new Surface laptop for students in a collection of bold colors. While the dollars available in the education market are compelling enough for big technology companies like Microsoft, classrooms also offer an opportunity to make a first impression on young people who could eventually buy their products. \u201cThe second-order effects of education, of being relevant in education, are going to be very, very key for us,\u201d Mr. Nadella said in an interview last week. He added, \u201cThe devices the kids take to their school, or to their college, is going to be influenced by what they were familiar with.\u201d Microsoft remains a force in classrooms around the globe. But the company\u2019s relevance in schools in the United States is in jeopardy after years of progress by Google, whose software dominates sales of new devices in schools. Google has gained ground in public schools by offering a tightly connected system of free classroom apps, lower-cost laptops called Chromebooks and a web-based console that allows schools to remotely manage thousands of student devices. Industry analysts said Microsoft\u2019s initiative was the company\u2019s first credible response to Google\u2019s recent encroachment into education. \u201cI am not going to predict that they are going to take back the entire market or anything like that, but this is the best move that I could have seen them making against Chromebooks,\u201d said J. P. Gownder, a technology analyst at Forrester Research, a market research company, where Microsoft is one of his clients. Some of Microsoft\u2019s moves are intended to make its products more appealing to educators by simplifying them and, in some ways, restricting them. The new version of its operating system, Windows 10 S, will only run applications that have been vetted by Microsoft and placed in its online app store, to prevent students from downloading software that could slow down the performance of their computers. Microsoft has also devised a way for schools to get new computers running on a network quickly, without manually configuring each one, by plugging in a USB memory stick. A Microsoft management system called Intune for Education allows schools to set further limits on classroom computers, like locking them down so students cannot cheat by surfing the web during tests. The tools are designed to be easy enough for teachers to use, since many schools do not have dedicated technology administrators. \u201cSometimes school districts aren\u2019t managing the devices,\u201d said Terry Myerson, a Microsoft executive vice president. \u201cTeachers are on the front lines of managing the devices.\u201d The company is also making full versions of its Office applications, rather than more limited web versions, available to schools for free. It has modified a version of its Microsoft Teams group-chat tool so teachers can collaborate with students. It is also waiving the cost of an educational version of Minecraft, a popular video game it owns, for the first year schools use it. While much of Microsoft\u2019s focus is on software that makes using inexpensive devices \u2014 often in the $200 to $300 range \u2014 more palatable, the company will also release a $999 device called the Surface Laptop, a twist on its Surface tablets. The device will run Windows 10 S. Tech companies are fiercely competing for business in primary and secondary schools in the United States, a technology market expected to reach $21 billion by 2020, according to estimates from Ibis Capital, a technology investment firm, and EdtechXGlobal, a conference company. It is a matter of some urgency for Microsoft. Chromebooks accounted for 58 percent of the 12.6 million mobile devices shipped to primary and secondary schools in the United States last year, compared with less than 1 percent in 2012, according to Futuresource Consulting, a research company. By contrast, Windows laptops and tablets made up 21.6 percent of the mobile-device shipments to schools in the United States last year, down from about 43 percent in 2012. Outside the United States, Microsoft Windows devices accounted for about 64 percent of mobile-device shipments to schools last year, Futuresource said. Apple has similarly experienced a steep Chromebook-related decline in shipments of iPads and Mac laptops to schools. Its mobile shipments to schools fell to 19 percent in the United States last year, from 52 percent in 2012. Like Microsoft, Apple is not taking the Chromebook phenomenon lying down. Apple recently introduced an iPad management app called Classroom, which enables teachers to assign shared iPads to students and create virtual classrooms to guide students through lessons. Apple also introduced lower pricing for educational institutions on its newest iPad model. The iPad starts at $329 for consumers and at $299 for schools. Google began to take off in schools in the United States in 2013, when school districts started making bulk purchases of Chromebooks, which are now made by Acer, Asus, Lenovo, HP and other computer makers. Because the laptops run on Google\u2019s Chrome operating system and revolve around web-based apps, they are often cheaper, easier to manage and faster to boot up than traditional laptops. By contrast, Mr. Gownder of Forrester Research said that Microsoft software is so feature-rich that technology experts in many school districts have had to devote their summers to preparing Windows laptops for students one device at a time. And some of Microsoft\u2019s initial attempts to contend with Google\u2019s rise in schools stumbled. In 2014, Microsoft announced it would be going head-to-head with Chromebooks by working with device manufacturers to introduce cheaper Windows laptops. But some schools found the lower-priced Windows devices too cheaply made to withstand student use and too low-powered to efficiently run Microsoft software. \u201cThe cheapest of them would not work,\u201d said Hal Friedlander, a former chief information officer of the New York City Department of Education. Google began to win the classroom software wars as well. In 2014, the company introduced Google Classroom, an app that teachers could use to digitize daily tasks, like assigning homework or taking attendance. It quickly became a hub where teachers could hold class discussions, communicate with individual students and keep parents updated on classroom news. While Microsoft had successfully developed a loyal following among teachers for certain tools \u2014 like Skype and its OneNote notebook organizer program \u2014 the company had no answer for the classroom management system, which Google had developed specifically for teachers. \u201cThe challenge for Microsoft is that it did not seem to have a coherent strategy,\u201d said Mr. Friedlander, who is now chief executive of the Technology for Education Consortium, a nonprofit group that promotes transparent pricing for technology sales to schools. Officials at Omaha Public Schools, which spends about $570,000 annually on Microsoft software and is investing $8 million to buy students Windows devices, welcomed the company\u2019s more comprehensive approach to the classroom. About 200 teachers in the district have completed professional development activities called the Microsoft Innovative Educator program. Some of those teachers are already using the Microsoft Teams chat service with their students. \u201cNow it\u2019s not four or five different experiences based on which app you are using,\u201d said Rob Dickson, the executive director of information management services for Omaha Public Schools. \u201cIt\u2019s a single app with all those experiences within it.\u201d", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/02/technology/microsoft-google-educational-sales.html", "published_date": "2017-05-01T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Technology", "updated_date": "2017-05-02T11:24:57-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-02T11:24:57-04:00", "abstract": "Google, with its low-cost and easily maintained Chromebooks, has steadily taken school customers away from Microsoft.", "title": "Microsoft Looks to Regain Lost Ground in the Classroom"}