{"text": "PHILADELPHIA \u2014 When the N.F.L. draft was last held here, in 1961, teams chose players in a smoke-filled hotel ballroom, a modest group of sportswriters dutifully covered the proceedings, and only a few fans bothered to attend. Since then, and especially in the past few years, the league has turned the draft into a mammoth spectacle, complete with red-carpet entrances for prospective players broadcast live on two television networks. This year, the league outdid itself by holding the event outdoors for the first time, in a park in front of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, where more than 70,000 people drank beer, rubbed elbows with fans of rival teams and hooted and hollered as the names of the first 32 players chosen were announced. Fittingly, perhaps, the N.F.L. also embraced the spirit of Rocky Balboa, the movie character who defined the city\u2019s underdog quality, and whose statue stands next to the museum. Carl Weathers, who played Balboa\u2019s rival, Apollo Creed, made a cameo appearance before the draft began. The draft picks bucked the odds, just like Rocky, the N.F.L. seemed to be saying. Underdog status is not something normally assigned to the N.F.L., the most powerful sports league in the country. But amid the jubilation was a sense that storm clouds are gathering. Last season, for the first time, ratings at every one of the league\u2019s top broadcast partners declined. Ratings may rebound, but the league\u2019s owners \u2014 who make the majority of their revenue from television deals \u2014 now must confront the possibility that the networks will resist paying ever larger sums for the right to air games. The owners got another reminder of that possibility on Wednesday, when ESPN, the 800-pound gorilla of sports television, laid off about 100 on-air sportscasters and reporters, including a handful of veteran writers for its digital site who covered the N.F.L. Before then came a wave of relocations that pushed the league into new markets \u2014 but also alienated fans in three cities that lost, or are losing, teams: San Diego, St. Louis and Oakland, Calif. The Rams are now playing in Los Angeles; next season the Chargers will be there, and by 2019, the Raiders will be in Las Vegas. The moves re-emphasized that the league\u2019s biggest priority remains making money \u2014 from relocation fees the moving teams pay the league, plus the league\u2019s cut of naming rights, sponsorships and other revenue boosts \u2014 no matter the complaints from deserted fans. The league is still facing more cosmic questions, most notably the long-term effects of concussions. With the help of a federal judge in Philadelphia, the N.F.L. agreed to pay millions of dollars to former players who have received diagnoses for serious neurological conditions. So far, a few hundred players have applied for cash payouts, with many more likely to come. Though they continue to watch N.F.L. games in droves, some fans now take a jaundiced view of the owners, and particularly the commissioner, Roger Goodell, who speaks for them. Mike Carr, a Cleveland Browns fan who drove 15 hours from Michigan to watch the draft, seemed to sum up that outlook. Carr wore a T-shirt that said \u201cJohnny Rehab,\u201d a nod to Johnny Manziel, the troubled quarterback drafted by the Browns in 2014. Before the draft began, Carr said he had made the trip in the hope that he could watch the Browns acquire Myles Garrett, the defensive end from Texas A&M, as the No. 1 overall pick, which they ultimately did. \u201cBut I\u2019m mostly really looking forward to booing Goodell,\u201d he said. Carr was not alone, based on the deafening boos from fans that greeted Goodell every time he took the stage. Concussions aren\u2019t the only legal headache confronting the league. Hundreds of retired players have also sued the N.F.L., asserting that their teams gave them painkillers without explaining the risks, including the possibility of addiction. A growing number of players are now asking the N.F.L. to let them use medical marijuana to deal with the pain associated with playing football. But Goodell once again shot down that idea on Friday, suggesting that marijuana is addictive and nodding to the possibility that the N.F.L. could be sued if it softened its stance on its use. \u201cAnd it\u2019s not as simple as someone just wants to feel better after a game,\u201d Goodell said on the \u201cMike & Mike\u201d radio show. \u201cWe really want to help our players in that circumstance, but I want to make sure that the negative consequences aren\u2019t something that is something that we\u2019ll be held accountable for some years down the road.\u201d The N.F.L., of course, will not fall from its perch any time soon, thought its growth may slow. To keep the money coming in, the owners have pushed overseas, with more games in London, Mexico and, leagues officials have said, China, at some point. The league is also striking digital-media deals, like the one it signed with Amazon to stream games on Thursday nights. The N.F.L. will also continue to turn the draft into a moneymaking roadshow by moving it to new cities every so often. But if that is not enough, the draft might take on underdog status after all.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/28/sports/football/misgivings-diminish-the-mighty-nfls-swagger.html", "published_date": "2017-04-27T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Sports", "updated_date": "2017-04-28T20:27:20-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-28T20:27:20-04:00", "abstract": "Holding its draft in the home of the underdog, Philadelphia, the league is faced with an undercurrent of worrisome trends, including a startling decline in TV viewership.", "title": "Misgivings Diminish the Mighty N.F.L.\u2019s Swagger"}