{"updated_date": "2017-04-18T22:50:08-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-18T21:09:03-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/18/opinion/mr-trump-plays-by-his-own-rules-or-no-rules.html", "abstract": "The president and his administration are fostering a culture of self-enrichment and self-dealing, ignoring norms of ethical conduct and transparency.", "section": "Opinion", "published_date": "2017-04-17T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "Mr. Trump Plays by His Own Rules (or No Rules)", "material_type_facet": "Editorial", "source": "The New York Times", "text": "Anyone who has been paying the slightest attention knows by now that this president and this White House intend to play by their own set of rules \u2014 rules that in some cases come close to breaking the law and, at the very least, defy traditions of conduct and transparency Americans have come to expect from their public servants. We know that Donald Trump has refused, unlike other presidents, to release his tax returns; that his trust agreement allows him undisclosed access to profits from his businesses; and even that he clings to a profitable lease on a hotel only a stone\u2019s throw from the White House when divesting himself of that lease is not only the obvious but the right thing to do. But just when you think you\u2019ve seen enough there\u2019s more. On Friday, the administration announced it would no longer release White House visitors\u2019 logs that have been available for years. (It cynically said posting these records would cost taxpayers $70,000 by 2020. Compare that with the multimillion-dollar tab estimated for every weekend trip Mr. Trump takes to Mar-a-Lago.) Meanwhile, news trickled out that on the very day that two of Ivanka Trump\u2019s and Jared Kushner\u2019s children were serenading the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, at Mar-a-Lago, the People\u2019s Republic of China approved new trademarks allowing Ivanka to peddle jewelry, bags and spa services to a nation of 1.4 billion where she is a role model for aspirational oligarchs. In the great scheme of things, neither the visitor blackout nor Ms. Trump\u2019s commercial coup seems a big deal. Yet both symbolize larger problems. One is an almost total absence of openness in an administration that is already teeming with real and potential conflicts and that has decided it can grant secret waivers to ethics requirements. The other is a culture of self-enrichment and self-dealing in which corporate C.E.O.s, lobbyists and foreign officials seeking the first family\u2019s favor hold parties at Mar-a-Lago and at the Trump International Hotel in Washington, a couple of blocks from the White House. On Tuesday, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a government watchdog group, expanded a lawsuit charging that the hotel violates the Constitution\u2019s emoluments clause, which prohibits the president from taking payments from foreign nations. One has to ask when this seamless meshing of statesmanship and merchandising will stop, if ever. Mr. Trump struggled for years to close deals across the Middle East; now that he\u2019s president, doors are opening. His family is seeking or holds trademarks in Egypt, Israel, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates, where the president\u2019s sons just opened a golf course in Dubai, and in Jordan, whose King Abdullah II just visited the White House to discuss joint efforts against ISIS. But Americans who expect that their government will stop this grotesque flouting of rules and traditional norms have been deeply disappointed. The Office of Government Ethics received 39,105 public queries and complaints about Trump administration ethics over the past six months, compared with 733 during the same period eight years earlier at the start of the Obama administration. But the office has no investigative or subpoena power: Its authority rests on the willingness of a president to take transparency in public service seriously, which this president does not. That leaves Jason Chaffetz, the Utah Republican who is chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, which has the legal authority and the resources to investigate and hold the administration to account. Anyone familiar with Mr. Chaffetz\u2019s record of partisan, ineffectual witch-hunting won\u2019t be surprised to learn that he\u2019s done nothing. Mr. Shaub and his team have been working nights and weekends trying to rein in what they can of the Trump entourage\u2019s abuses, combing through the financial disclosures of administration appointees and ringing alarm bells. They\u2019ve had a few successes: So far the Senate has refused to confirm nominees whose financial disclosures don\u2019t earn approval from the ethics office, which has unearthed potential conflicts and led several nominees to shed assets that pose problems. But that\u2019s hardly a match for an administration filled with people who seem determined to wring every last dollar and ounce of trust from the American people.", "item_type": "Article"}