{"text": "Joseph Ponte, the correction commissioner brought to New York to overhaul the city\u2019s troubled jail system, was reprimanded in a Department of Investigation report that found he had spent 90 days outside the city last year, even as violence at Rikers Island was spiraling out of control. Mr. Ponte repeatedly took his city-owned vehicle on trips to coastal Maine in violation of city guidelines, the report said. The inquiry found that many Correction Department employees routinely misused their agency vehicles for trips to outlet malls, casinos, weekend getaways in the Hamptons, and area airports to go on vacation. All told, 21 employees were referred for discipline. But the report singled out Mr. Ponte and his three highest-ranking aides for the \u201cmost serious misuse.\u201d The 17-page report detailing the city investigation agency\u2019s findings did not delve deeply into Mr. Ponte\u2019s extended absences. But his time away from the city raises questions about how engaged he was in managing the department during a crucial period, as hundreds of millions of dollars were being spent on a high-profile overhaul effort. While he was away from New York, his subordinates had to respond to a series of crises, including the on-duty death of a correction officer, an inmate death and an escape, the inquiry found. In none of these cases did Mr. Ponte return to New York, according to the report. It was a troubling turn for Mr. Ponte, a widely respected corrections veteran of nearly five decades who led Maine\u2019s Department of Corrections and gained a national reputation for improving prisons before being lured to New York by Mayor Bill de Blasio in 2014. The mayor has made reforming the agency a high priority and has emphasized that its officers and front-line supervisors need to be held to a higher standard. The Correction Department has been under intense scrutiny for its culture of corruption and violence. Its officers have routinely been arrested and charged with crimes including excessive use of force, falsifying records and smuggling drugs and weapons into the very jails they police. \u201cThe misuse of city vehicles was a top-down practice, evidenced by Commissioner Ponte and other high-ranking D.O.C. staff\u2019s frequent disregard of city rules and regulations,\u201d the report said. Eric F. Phillips, a spokesman for the mayor, issued a statement dismissing Mr. Ponte\u2019s absences from the city as insignificant. \u201cCommissioner Ponte has presided over sweeping reforms that have made our city\u2019s jails safer, more secure and more rehabilitative,\u201d the statement said. \u201cThese reforms are the mayor\u2019s focus, not the number of times the commissioner visited his family on weekends.\u201d Peter Thorne, a spokesman for the Correction Department, said any violation of city rules was \u201can inadvertent misunderstanding and will not recur.\u201d He added that Mr. Ponte and his senior staff \u201care on call all day, all night, all year.\u201d \u201cDespite the need for them to be away from the city periodically, thanks to cellphones and computers, the work of the department does not grind to a halt,\u201d Mr. Thorne said. It was unclear whether any of the conduct amounted to a crime. The inquiry is continuing, a person briefed on the matter said, and the Department of Investigation has not yet decided whether to refer it to a district attorney\u2019s office. City investigators are also examining the misuse of vehicles at other agencies, one person briefed on the matter said. The report, which was expected to be released on Friday, focused almost exclusively on the abuse of department vehicles and did not examine Mr. Ponte\u2019s extended absences in detail. It found that he had put about 18,500 miles of out-of-state travel on the city vehicle he used for those trips. The cost of tolls and gas was less than $1,800. And while the report did not say whether the abuses had a direct effect on jail operations, it suggested that the agency\u2019s management was far from living up to the standards it sought to set for the rank-and-file. The investigation grew out of an anonymous tip and was conducted by using GPS data to map the movements of each vehicle, as well as a review of E-ZPass data, city records reflecting gasoline purchases, and department vehicle assignment records. It found that the commissioner had spent 90 days out of state, 35 of which were during the workweek. \u201cCommissioner Ponte informed D.O.I. that he considers himself on 24-hour call and believed he could take his city vehicle with him wherever he went, including back to his home state of Maine,\u201d the report said. Mr. Ponte told investigators that of the 35 weekdays he had spent out of state, he had worked a full eight-hour day on 29. Investigators are looking into his statement that he worked on those days, two people briefed on the matter said. Typically, Mr. Ponte travels in a large sport utility vehicle with a security detail. On the trips out of state, he used the second vehicle assigned to him, a smaller S.U.V. Property records show that Mr. Ponte, 70, whose city salary in 2016 was nearly $220,000, and his wife sold their home in Wiscasset, Me., in March. The report found that the department\u2019s acting first deputy commissioner, Cynthia Brann; its chief of staff, Jeff Thamkittikasem; and a deputy commissioner, Gregory Kuczinski, had also used their official vehicles for private business. Ms. Brann admitted to using one of her two city vehicles primarily for shopping. From January to August 2016, she made 18 trips to malls in New York and New Jersey. Mr. Thamkittikasem drove his city vehicle to Washington in March 2016 to address a problem with a residence he owned there, the report said. In August, he drove to a friend\u2019s house on Virginia\u2019s Chesapeake coast. Mr. Kuczinski used his city vehicle to travel to La Guardia and Kennedy Airports a total of eight times, and once used it to go on a golf outing in Westchester County. The report contained several recommendations designed to ensure compliance with the city\u2019s vehicle policy, which officials agreed to carry out. When Mr. Ponte took over the agency, he was faced with the enormous task of tackling the dysfunction and astounding brutality of Rikers Island. There have been some important successes: The agency did away with solitary confinement for inmates under 22 years old, education and therapeutic programs have been expanded, thousands of new security cameras have been installed, hundreds of new correction officers have been hired, and training has been updated. But despite three years of increased funding and efforts by outside consultants, the violence appears to be as rampant as ever. This month, a federal monitoring team overseeing changes at Rikers issued a report that painted a dire picture of conditions at city jails. Guards continued to use excessive force against inmates at an \u201calarming rate,\u201d the report found, and to falsify official records to cover up their actions.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/28/nyregion/new-york-correction-commissioner-joseph-ponte-reprimand.html", "published_date": "2017-04-27T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "N.Y. / Region", "updated_date": "2017-04-28T06:00:05-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-28T06:00:05-04:00", "abstract": "Joseph Ponte, hired to overhaul New York\u2019s troubled jails, repeatedly took his city-owned vehicle to coastal Maine in violation of guidelines, a city report found.", "title": "New York Correction Chief Spent a Quarter of 2016 Elsewhere"}