{"text": "Facing a chronic problem of raw sewage emptying into city waterways during rainfalls, and struggling to meet health regulations, New York City environmental officials are turning to a new method of treating bacteria in sewage: dumping chlorine into sewer pipes leading to the waterways. The city\u2019s Department of Environmental Protection has long tried to mitigate the pollution and health risks from the estimated 20 billion gallons per year of untreated sewage that flow into city waterways when treatment systems are overwhelmed during a rainfall. In recent years, the city has promoted projects like new retention tanks and has planted patches of greenery to lessen the runoff during rainstorms. But some environmental advocates claim that details have been scant on the city\u2019s plan to disinfect wastewater by chlorinating it inside pipes just before the waste discharges into three bodies of water in Queens and the Bronx. \u201cThey\u2019re using the most worrisome and unproven technique that we have in our toolbox,\u201d said Sean Dixon, a staff lawyer at Riverkeeper, a group that seeks to protect the Hudson River and its tributaries. \u201cIt\u2019s like they\u2019re grabbing the last straw and using the cheapest and least effective method.\u201d In response to this and other water-quality concerns, a coalition of local environmental groups announced recently that they intended to sue the United States Environmental Protection Agency, saying the agency had not adequately protected water quality in New York City\u2019s waterways under the federal Clean Water Act. Federal officials said they would not comment on the allegations and directed questions regarding the chlorination to New York State\u2019s Department of Environmental Conservation, which is responsible for enforcing federal regulations and standards that the city must follow. The city\u2019s plan includes locations and budgets for chlorination facilities to be built to serve three waterways: Alley Creek and Flushing Creek in Queens and the Hutchinson River in the Bronx. Chlorination is commonly done in the more controlled setting of wastewater treatment plants, rather than in sewer pipes flowing directly into waterways. Advocates called the chlorination plan, while comparatively small in such a vast sewage system, an unusual initiative that they worry might be expanded to other areas of the city. They cited a separate pilot program that the city has underway to add chlorination to a sewer pipe in Spring Creek, a neighborhood in Brooklyn. A spokesman for the city\u2019s Department of Environmental Protection, Ted Timbers, said there were currently no other approved plans that included chlorination in sewer pipes. Mr. Timbers said that the chlorination would run from May through October and that the sewage would undergo a dechlorination process before being discharged into the waterways. He called chlorine \u201cthe most widely used disinfectant for water and wastewater treatment in the U.S.\u201d and said the plan had been discussed with the public at neighborhood meetings. And, Mr. Timbers said, \u201cNew York Harbor is cleaner and healthier today than it has been in more than a century.\u201d Sean Mahar, a spokesman for the state\u2019s Department of Environmental Conservation, said the state would continue to hold the city\u2019s Department of Environmental Protection accountable \u201cfor extensive monitoring\u201d and press it \u201cto routinely report data to the state to ensure compliance with our strict standards to protect public health and the environment.\u201d Much of the advocates\u2019 outrage was spurred by plans released last month outlining how the city aimed to address sewer overflow in the years to come. Larry Levine, a senior lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council, faulted the plans for failing to call for major reductions in untreated wastewater outflow, describing it as an example of city and state officials failing to meet federal health standards. As the city\u2019s population increases, much of its sewer system remains antiquated, and updating it is complicated and expensive. City officials say the system treats about 1.3 billion gallons of city wastewater on a dry day and can handle twice that amount during moderate rainfall. But because most of the city\u2019s 305 square miles are impenetrable surfaces like rooftops, roadways and playgrounds \u2014 city officials estimate 72 percent \u2014 torrents of runoff rainwater flood storm drains and sewers that also handle output from sinks and bathrooms in homes and businesses. When this combination is beyond the capacity that a local treatment plant can handle, the excess bypasses processing plants to avoid backing up the systems and flows untreated into the city\u2019s waterways, often causing pathogen levels to rise. The city has managed to drastically improve water quality in recent decades, turning many dismal waterways into spots that are now swimmable and brimming with aquatic life. Mr. Timbers said New York City had the largest environmentally sustainable infrastructure program in the country and had invested significant amounts of money to build retention tanks and curbside gardens to reduce runoff into sewers. The city has a long-range plan to invest $1.5 billion by 2030 on environmentally sustainable infrastructure and has over the last decade invested more than $10 billion to upgrade wastewater treatment plants and improve water quality. In January, the city agency announced that nitrogen levels had declined in city waterways as a result of $1 billion in upgrades at four wastewater treatment plants. The agency also plans on building a 25-million-gallon storage tunnel \u2014 estimated to cost at least $1.2 billion \u2014 to reduce outflow into Flushing Bay. Mr. Dixon, of Riverkeeper, hailed those projects but called some strategies shortsighted, such as the chlorination of sewage in pipes, which he said often failed to completely disinfect the material and did not treat certain toxins in the runoff. In addition, Mr. Dixon said, residual chlorine can devastate marine life and hinder water quality testing. Timothy Eaton, a hydrologist at the school of earth and environmental sciences at Queens College, said that while chlorine was an effective disinfectant in controlled settings like swimming pools, using it in outflowing sewer pipes was \u201ca very different ballgame.\u201d Unpredictable and constant changes in the volume of sewage flow can complicate the dechlorination process by creating uncertain dosages and residual chlorine, he said. \u201cIt\u2019s very difficult to predict the amount of water you\u2019re going to get at any period of time,\u201d he said. \u201cIf you overdose it, you\u2019re basically treating Flushing Creek and Flushing Bay like swimming pools.\u201d The chlorination plan would not remove floating debris or prevent oxygen depletion in the outflow, said Mr. Eaton, who with another hydrologist at the school, Gregory O\u2019Mullan, has spoken out against the chlorination. Mr. O\u2019Mullan called it a \u201cBand-Aid\u201d treatment that gives the chlorine limited contact time to disinfect. \u201cThis is low-level treatment,\u201d he said, adding that it was the kind of approach that would have been used decades ago.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/01/nyregion/new-york-chlorine-sewers-environment.html", "published_date": "2017-04-30T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "N.Y. / Region", "updated_date": "2017-05-01T19:09:18-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-01T19:09:18-04:00", "abstract": "The city is seeking to solve a chronic problem of raw sewage emptying into city waterways during rainfalls, but some argue the plan relies on an unproven technique.", "title": "New York Plan to Dump Chlorine Into Sewers Worries Environmental Advocates"}