{"text": "Think you can stop paying attention to the N.F.L. Draft? Think again. Among the star players who have recently been drafted in Round 2 are Le\u2019Veon Bell, Janoris Jenkins, Alshon Jeffrey and Rob Gronkowski. The Green Bay Packers are scheduled to select first on Friday, followed by the Seahawks and Jaguars. How to watch: The round begins at 7 p.m. Eastern and will be televised and streamed by ESPN and the NFL Network. Round 3 follows. Here are some of the best players still on the board. Dalvin Cook, Running back, Florida State His 1,765 rushing yards in 2016 were the highest in a three-year stretch in which he exceeded 1,000 each year. His patience in finding holes, and his ability to show a high-end burst once he sees an opening, have him more in the mold of Le\u2019Veon Bell rather than the Christian Okoye-like Leonard Fournette, drafted by the Jaguars at No. 4 on Thursday night. He has had problems on the field (fumbles) and off the field (multiple arrests) that will combine to have him valued far lower than his ability as a runner would seem to suggest. Cam Robinson, Tackle, Alabama Robinson has not proved to be an elite pass-blocker despite a successful career as a three-year starter for Alabama. He will need to improve his ability to protect the passer, and limit how much head-down charging he does on run-blocks if he wants to succeed at the next level. An arrest on his record (marijuana possession and a stolen handgun in his vehicle, though no chargers were filed) is also likely to affect where he is picked. Forrest Lamp, Guard, Western Kentucky The top-rated offensive lineman in the draft by some, Lamp was a four-year starter in college, primarily playing left tackle. His short arms (32\u00bc inches) will almost assuredly result in teams moving him inside to guard, thus limiting his overall impact, but his ability to thrive in both run-blocking and pass-blocking should make him a starter from Day 1. Kevin King, Cornerback, Washington A high-character player with good instincts, a solid college career and an excellent performance at the scouting combine, King has steadily improved his draft stock. He is extremely tall for a cornerback, and has seen some time at safety as well, but with a 4.43-second 40 and a 39.5-inch vertical leap, there is no reason he cannot stay on the outside at least early in his career. Quincy Wilson, Cornerback, Florida Wilson has made up for a lack of speed in his career by being overly physical, which could result in a barrage of penalties at the pro level until he either adjusts to the rules of the game or is put into more situations where he is playing in a zone. He gets points for prototypical size and a willingness to deliver big tackles, but he may end up being a safety when all is said and done. Budda Baker, Safety, Washington His actual name is Bishard, but he has gone by Budda since birth, and the former Washington State 100-meter champion has game-changing speed in the middle of the field. He is small enough that trying to cover tight ends could be a problem, and he is not a big hitter in run defense, but he makes up for many of his deficiencies with maximum effort. Whether that will translate at the pro level is somewhat questionable.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/28/sports/football/nfl-draft-best-available.html", "published_date": "2017-04-27T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Sports", "updated_date": "2017-04-28T14:31:49-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-28T14:31:49-04:00", "abstract": "A look at some of the best players still on the board, including Dalvin Cook, Cam Robinson, Kevin King and Quincy Wilson.", "title": "N.F.L. Draft Round 2: Here Are the Best Available Players"}