{"abstract": "If confirmed, the arrest would bring to three the number of Americans known to be held by the secretive nation at a tense moment in relations with Washington.", "title": "North Korea Detains U.S. Citizen, Reports Say", "updated_date": "2017-04-23T07:58:52-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/23/world/asia/north-korea-detains-us-citizen-reports-say.html", "item_type": "Article", "source": "The New York Times", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-23T07:58:52-04:00", "text": "SEOUL, South Korea \u2014 North Korea has detained a United States citizen, a South Korean news outlet reported on Sunday, raising the number of Americans thought to be held by the secretive nation to three. The arrest, if confirmed, would further complicate Washington\u2019s relations with the country at a particularly tense moment. South Korea\u2019s Yonhap News Agency, citing unnamed sources, said that a Korean-American man identified only by his last name, Kim, was arrested on Friday at Pyongyang International Airport while trying to leave the North. It said the man, who is in his late 50s and is a former professor at the Yanbian University of Science and Technology in China, has been involved in aid and relief programs to North Korea. The Swedish Embassy in Pyongyang said it was aware that the North was holding a Korean-American citizen, The Associated Press reported. The United States does not have formal diplomatic ties with North Korea, and the Swedish Embassy looks after consular affairs in the North on behalf of Washington. The South Korean government, including its Unification Ministry and National Intelligence Service, said it could not confirm the report. North Korea has a history of detaining foreigners on various criminal charges. At least two other Americans are known to be held in the country. Last year, North Korea sentenced an American college student, Otto F. Warmbier, to 15 years\u2019 hard labor after accusing him of trying to steal a political banner from his hotel in Pyongyang. It later sentenced another American, Kim Dong-chul, to 10 years\u2019 hard labor on charges of spying and other offenses. The North was accused of holding the Americans on what many see as dubious charges in order to use them as diplomatic leverage. In 2014, an American citizen, Jeffrey E. Fowle, was arrested and accused of leaving a Bible in a hotel. He was released later that year. Kenneth Bae, a Korean-American missionary sentenced to 15 years\u2019 hard labor after he was charged with trying to establish a secret proselytizing network, was freed in 2014, after the American government sent the director of national intelligence at the time, James R. Clapper Jr., to North Korea. Americans are not the only foreigners being held in the North. In 2015, a South Korea-born Canadian pastor was sentenced there to hard labor for life on charges of plotting to overthrow the North Korean leadership. The North has also arrested at least four South Koreans on spying and other charges in recent years.", "published_date": "2017-04-22T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "World"}