{"title": "China\u2019s Leader Urges Restraint on North Korea in Call With Trump", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/24/world/asia/north-korea-trump-china-xi-jinping.html", "updated_date": "2017-04-24T01:08:37-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "section": "World", "published_date": "2017-04-23T20:00:00-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-24T01:08:37-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "material_type_facet": "News", "text": "BEIJING \u2014 President Donald J. Trump and his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, discussed growing tensions over North Korea\u2019s advancing nuclear arms program, with Mr. Xi urging Mr. Trump to show restraint despite signs that the North may be preparing a nuclear test. This month, Mr. Trump has already used a meeting with Mr. Xi in Florida, a follow-up phone call, interviews and Twitter messages to press Mr. Xi to do more to deter North Korea from holding additional nuclear and missile tests. The latest call between the leaders \u2014 on Monday morning in Beijing \u2014 came amid warnings that the North may be preparing another atomic test explosion. In the latest call, the third between the two leaders, Mr. Xi told Mr. Trump that China opposed any such steps by North Korea, but he also nudged Mr. Trump to show restraint, according to a report on Chinese television. \u201cChina adamantly opposes any actions in contravention of the United Nations Security Council resolutions,\u201d Mr. Xi said, according to the report, evidently referring to a series of decisions by the council to punish North Korea for its nuclear and missile programs. \u201cAt the same time, it is hoped that all sides exercise restraint and avoid doing things that exacerbate tensions on the peninsula,\u201d Mr. Xi said, referring to the Korean Peninsula. \u201cOnly if all sides live up to their responsibilities and come together from different directions can the nuclear issue on the peninsula be resolved as quickly as possible.\u201d The comments reflected growing Chinese fears that the tensions between North Korea and the United States and its Asian allies could spiral into outright military conflict. That widening rift is presenting China with hard choices between its longstanding ties to North Korea and its hopes for steady relations with the United States. Mr. Trump also spoke with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, a close American ally, on Monday morning in Tokyo, Mr. Abe told reporters. \u201cNorth Korea\u2019s nuclear and missile program is an extremely serious threat to security not only in the international community but also for our country,\u201d Mr. Abe said. \u201cWe will continue to closely cooperate and maintain the high level of warning and surveillance. We will respond resolutely.\u201d The White House did not immediately issue its own accounts of Mr. Trump\u2019s calls with Mr. Xi and Mr. Abe. But Washington and allied governments believe that North Korea\u2019s weapons development is getting closer to mastering the means to hit the continental United States with a ballistic missile. And they have become increasingly impatient with China to do more to rein in North Korea. North Korea did not proceed with a nuclear test on April 15, which some experts had expected, but work apparently resumed at its atomic test site in Punggye-ri, said analysts who have assessed satellite images of the site. The Chinese government has already increased some pressure on North Korea, which traditionally depends on China for much of its trade, foreign currency and energy. In February, China officially suspended coal shipments from North Korea, and a prominent Chinese newspaper has also raised the threat of choking oil shipments to the North. Yet Beijing also argues that Washington must also do more to end the volatile impasse with Pyongyang. Chinese diplomats have urged the United States to suspend major military exercises with South Korea in return for North Korea suspending nuclear and missile tests. Mr. Xi\u2019s government has also fiercely opposed an antimissile system \u2014 called the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system, or Thaad \u2014 that the Trump administration has begun installing in South Korea. China argues that the system could also be rejiggered to spy on its missiles. But White House officials have said North Korea must prove it is serious about dismantling its nuclear and missiles programs before new negotiations are possible. In their latest call, Mr. Xi told Mr. Trump that he wanted to work with the United States. \u201cInternational circumstances are changing rapidly, and it\u2019s extremely necessary for China and the United States to maintain close contacts and promptly exchange views on major issues,\u201d Mr. Xi said.", "abstract": "The comments by Xi Jinping reflected growing fears that the tensions between the North and the United States and its allies in Asia could spiral into outright military conflict."}