{"updated_date": "2017-04-19T00:36:37-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-18T21:07:47-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/18/world/asia/north-korea-missile-program-sabotage.html", "abstract": "Whether an American program to sabotage North Korean test flights is behind a string of failures, it has led Pyongyang to hunt for spies and ways to combat such attacks.", "section": "World", "published_date": "2017-04-17T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "Hand of U.S. Leaves North Korea\u2019s Missile Program Shaken", "material_type_facet": "News", "source": "The New York Times", "text": "WASHINGTON \u2014 When a North Korean missile test went awry on Sunday, blowing up seconds after liftoff, there were immediate suspicions that a United States program to sabotage the test flights had struck again. The odds seem highly likely: Eighty-eight percent of the launches of the North\u2019s most threatening missiles have self-destructed since the covert American program was accelerated three years ago. But even inside the United States Cyber Command and the National Security Agency, where the operation is centered, it is nearly impossible to tell if any individual launch is the victim of a new, innovative approach to foil North Korean missiles with cyber and electronic strikes. Bad welding, bad parts, bad engineering and bad luck can all play a role in such failures \u2014 as it did in the United States\u2019 own missile program, particularly in its early days. And it would require a near impossible degree of forensic investigation to figure out an exact cause, given that the failed North Korean missiles tend to explode, disintegrate in midair and plunge in fragments into faraway seas. But this much is clear, experts say: The existence of the American program, and whatever it has contributed to North Korea\u2019s remarkable string of troubles, appears to have shaken Pyongyang and led to an internal spyhunt as well as innovative ways to defeat a wide array of enemy cyberstrikes. By all accounts, the program that President Barack Obama stepped up in 2014 has been adopted with enthusiasm by the Trump administration. President Trump\u2019s national security aides are eagerly hoping that the Chinese, among others, will get North Korea to freeze or reverse its program. Yet they have no compunctions about using this new class of weapon against missile tests that the United Nations has already prohibited. Speaking in Moscow last week, Rex W. Tillerson, the secretary of state, was put on the defensive by a Russian reporter who challenged American complaints of interference in the American election, despite Washington\u2019s cyber attacks against Iran\u2019s nuclear program and North Korea\u2019s missile program. \u201cCybertools to disrupt weapons programs \u2014 that\u2019s another use of the tools, and I make a distinction between those two,\u201d Mr. Tillerson argued back, without specifically confirming their use against Pyongyang. Perhaps taken by surprise at the question, Mr. Tillerson never took the next step to voice the argument that some of his Trump administration colleagues make in private: that since the United Nations Security Council has banned North Korean missile tests, any effort to interfere with them would have some basis in international law. \u201cWhen you look at what is emanating out of North Korea,\u201d Michael Chertoff, a former secretary of homeland security who now runs a cyberconsulting group in Washington, said Tuesday at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, \u201cI have sympathy for the argument that anything we can do to stop an unpredictable person from using nuclear weapons is worth trying.\u201d But the question for the United States\u2019 intelligence agencies is whether this new tool is as effective as many have hoped. While billions of dollars have been poured into new offensive cyberweapons, touting a success in thwarting North Korea \u2014 whether it is real or imagined \u2014 can be turned into an argument for more. It is a particularly difficult question in light of Sunday\u2019s botched test, because it is still unclear exactly what missile was launched. By nature, missiles teeter on the brink of failure, and new designs are often accident prone. At their best, missiles are dense welters of pipes, engines, valves, pumps, volatile fuels, relays, explosive bolts, wires, sensors and circuit boards that suddenly emit blistering flames and roar skyward with such shattering violence that they often quickly hit the breaking point. Things can easily go wrong, and frequently do. But even by those measures, the North Koreans are having a rough time, and it has gotten a lot rougher since the United States accelerated its sabotage program. In the annals of rocketry, experts say, roughly 5 to 10 percent of developmental test flights go awry. That holds even for such high practitioners of the art as the billionaires Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, and Elon Musk, the founder of Tesla, who are now racing to redefine the future of spaceflight. (By contrast, American commercial airline flights have a success rate of more than 99.9999 percent. And when crashes do occur, it can take investigators weeks, months or even years to identify the cause.) But the sheer frequency of North Korean missile mishaps suggests that sabotage lies behind at least some of the recent failures. So does the timing. Typically, countries encounter high failure rates when they start their rocket programs. As the programs mature, and engineers gain experience, spectacular failures decline and success tends to become a habit. In North Korea, the situation has been the exact reverse. By and large, the North was a reliable maker of missiles in the 1980s, \u201990s and into the 2000s. The government sold its missiles to Pakistan and Iran, among others. Then came the effort to launch the Musudan, an intermediate-range missile that Pyongyang first displayed in a military parade in late 2010. It was 5 feet wide and 40 feet long \u2014 remarkably small compared with the North\u2019s big rockets. But it represented an enormous threat. Carried on a truck, it could be hauled on country roads through forested regions or kept in tunnels, making it easy to hide and, as a target, difficult to find and destroy. To date, the proven reach of the Musudan makes it the most threatening potential weapon in the North\u2019s emerging arsenal of missiles that might loft nuclear warheads. It is seen as able to hit targets up to 2,200 miles away \u2014 far enough to strike the sprawling American base at Guam. Last year, the North conducted eight flight tests. Only one succeeded, giving the missile an overall failure rate of 88 percent. It was after the last failure that the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, was reported to have ordered an investigation into whether the United States was sabotaging his country\u2019s test flights, searching for spies in his system. Experts say that the best way to slow a program is to send a country scrambling for the causes of failures. \u201cDisrupting their tests,\u201d William J. Perry, defense secretary in the Clinton administration, said at a meeting this year in Washington, would be \u201ca pretty effective way of stopping their ICBM program.\u201d But more recently, the effectiveness of the United States\u2019 sabotage has grown increasingly uncertain. Some new North Korean missile designs, using solid fuels, have had a higher success rate. Moreover, the North Koreans, as sophisticated cyberoperators, have grown better at defense. John Schilling, a technical expert on North Korea\u2019s missile program, expressed skepticism on Tuesday about the efficacy of the foreign cyberattacks against Pyongyang\u2019s missiles. \u201cWe haven\u2019t seen anything yet pointing to cyber specifically,\u201d Dr. Schilling said on a conference call organized by 38 North, a think tank specializing in North Korea at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. An easier target of sabotage, Dr. Schilling added, would be the parts and supplies that North Korea imports to feed its factories that make the missiles. Longtime North Korea watcher Martyn Williams, who runs a California-based blog called North Korea Tech, recently reported that the North\u2019s scientists have developed a quantum encryption device that could completely secure communications systems from hackers, eavesdroppers and saboteurs. The effort, Mr. Williams wrote this month, has the potential to \u201champer the ability of foreign intelligence agencies to monitor and affect North Korean systems in real time.\u201d", "item_type": "Article"}