{"source": "The New York Times", "updated_date": "2017-04-18T00:01:11-04:00", "material_type_facet": "News", "text": "North Korea\u2019s military parade on Saturday, more than rallying its citizens, appeared intended to send a message to the rest of us: The country is seeking a program sophisticated enough to fire a guaranteed nuclear retaliation in any war, including one day against the United States. In 2012, when North Korea unveiled a map with a war plan for nuclear strikes against major American cities, \u201cwe all fell out of our chairs laughing,\u201d said Melissa R. Hanham, an analyst at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies in Monterey, Calif. After a series of breakthroughs, including those shown on Saturday, they\u2019re not laughing anymore, Ms. Hanham said: \u201cThe more they roll out, the more it looks like that is their actual plan.\u201d That plan was conveyed in four missile systems that were paraded for the first time, two of which were new altogether. Here are what the systems reveal about North Korea\u2019s rapidly growing capabilities and how the country could use them in a war. The video above shows the first of the two-part showstopper: what appear to be two brand-new intercontinental missiles, doubling the number of such systems in North Korea\u2019s arsenal. Both are carried in canisters, which are also new and make the missiles easier to move, hide and launch quickly. Some analysts looked for hints of wobble in the video, which could suggest the canisters were empty. Jeffrey Lewis, also of the Middlebury Institute, said it hardly mattered: This was a signal. \u201cThis is exactly how they told us the KN-08 was coming,\u201d Mr. Lewis said, referring to an earlier intercontinental missile. \u201cThey show you twice on parade, once in the factory and then tests of crucial components.\u201d Another revelation: The canisters are sized for missiles larger than any known intercontinental ballistic missiles, which are already designed to reach the United States\u2019 east coast (though they have not yet demonstrated that capability). Ms. Hanham suggested the size could be to accommodate multiple warheads, whereas Mr. Lewis said he suspected ambitions for a thermonuclear device. Either capability, they said, was years away, but the conjecture highlighted North Korea\u2019s growing nuclear ambitions. Ms. Hanham said the truck carrying the second canister, seen above, is a significant step in itself \u2014 and resolves a mystery dating to 2012. The year before, North Korea imported six enormous truck chassis from China, supposedly for civilian purposes, then, in 2012, converted them into mobile missile launchers. But the launchers were larger than any North Korean missile, raising the question of why the country would risk an incident with Beijing over trucks it did not need. The trucks resurfaced on Saturday\u2019s parade, finally carrying something that fit them: the second canister, also sized for an ICBM. This suggested North Korea has been working toward the system since at least 2011, hinting that it is more than just a shell. Mr. Lewis noted the resemblance to a Russian ICBM known as the Topol, which underscores how far North Korea\u2019s program has come in its relatively short life. George William Herbert, an independent analyst, estimated the diameter as from 6.5 feet to 7.2 feet (2 and 2.2 meters), large enough to \u201creach at least everywhere in the U.S.\u201d North Korea has few highways on which to hide trailer-pulled missiles. But a truck can enter the country\u2019s many rugged roads, making it much harder for the United States to track and find every missile. More than just a truck, it is a sign that North Korea is seeking a guaranteed capability to strike American cities even if the United States fires first. Think of this system, which carries a medium-range missile known as the KN-15, as more imminently threatening South Korea and Japan with the sort of retaliation that North Korea is seeking with its new ICBMs. The vehicle has a track rather than wheels, which allows it to hide along North Korea\u2019s many dirt roads or mountain passes, similar to the truck-mounted ICBM. It uses solid rather than liquid fuel, which means it is always fueled, making it more mobile and able to fire on short notice. And the canister makes the missile more resistant to the elements, which means it can be left outdoors for long stretches. The KN-15 can only reach North Korea\u2019s neighbors, but unlike the ICBMs has been tested in the field, making it much closer to combat-ready: This test, from February, shows how the canister works, by ejecting the missile in a burst of pressurized steam, as well as how the track allows for firing from remote locations where satellites might not know to look. North Korea\u2019s Navy showcased the KN-11, which is an earlier version of the KN-15 but can be launched by submarine. While North Korea is known to have only one missile submarine, this could greatly increase the threat to South Korea and Japan. Though the KN-11 has a range of up to about 620 miles or 1,000 kilometers, a submarine can move it much closer, giving its target less time to respond. It also gives North Korea two ways to potentially bypass South Korea\u2019s new American-supplied missile defense system, the Thaad. First, though the missile defense has only a 120-degree field of view, a submarine allows North Korea to fire from virtually any direction. Second, North Korea could \u201cloft\u201d the missile, firing it nearly straight up and then back down at a speed that could overwhelm missile defense batteries, Mr. Lewis wrote in a blog post. Parading these weapons proves only North Korea\u2019s ambitions, not its capabilities, the analysts said. But the country, they added, has already taken a number of steps long thought out of reach \u2014 steps that, if they continue, could make those ambitions reality.", "abstract": "A goal for the nation? A program sophisticated enough to one day fire a guaranteed nuclear retaliation in any war, even against the United States.", "section": "World", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/18/world/asia/north-korea-parade-missiles.html", "published_date": "2017-04-17T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "The Messages in North Korea\u2019s Military Parade", "item_type": "Article", "created_date": "2017-04-18T00:01:11-04:00"}