{"text": "WASHINGTON \u2014 In the wake of more injuries to their roster \u2014 particularly to their best everyday player, outfielder Yoenis Cespedes \u2014 the Mets must evaluate everything from the players\u2019 training regimens to how much water they are drinking, General Manager Sandy Alderson said. \u201cIt would be easy to dismiss this as this is just how baseball goes,\u201d Alderson said before Saturday\u2019s game against the Washington Nationals. \u201cBut you do have to sort through the injuries and think about the kinds of things you\u2019re doing preventively to make sure they\u2019re minimized.\u201d The Mets, who currently have seven players on the disabled list, reached the playoffs after having their share of injuries last season, and they have limped to a 10-13 start this year. But spirited back-to-back wins, including a 5-3 victory on Saturday over the Nationals, showed that the Mets could again rise above their misfortune. Outfielder Michael Conforto, who has gone from barely making the team out of spring training to an indispensable part of it, hit two home runs for the first multihomer game of his career and drove in three runs. Jose Reyes showed more signs of snapping out of his vicious early-season slump with a solo home run in the ninth inning. And starter Zack Wheeler battled his own command issues and uneven infield defense, including some from Reyes, over four and two-thirds innings. The two wins over the Nationals, who swept the Mets last weekend, provided a boost to a team whose long injury list includes several of its most important players: Cespedes; infielders David Wright, Wilmer Flores and Lucas Duda; and pitchers Steven Matz and Seth Lugo. Injuries are unavoidable in baseball, and some of those sustained by the Mets are typical of the sport. Matz and Lugo are both out with elbow injuries, as is Duda. But after Cespedes, who has had leg injuries throughout his career, hurt the same one twice in two weeks, Alderson had questions. Cespedes left a game with tightness in his left hamstring on April 20. He said then that the discomfort was not serious and that he simply needed a few days of rest. The Mets chose not to place him on the disabled list, which, this season, changed to 10 days from 15, so that teams could handle relatively routine injuries without losing a vital player for more than two weeks. Cespedes missed three games and gained two more days of rest with a day off and a rainout. In his second game back, however, he had to be helped off the field because the hamstring began to hurt again after he hit a double. The diagnosis was a strained left hamstring, and this time, the Mets placed Cespedes on the disabled list. The situation is uncomfortably familiar. Last season, Cespedes missed a few days to rest a right quadriceps muscle and returned briefly \u2014 only to end up on the disabled list. Although the pattern repeated itself this season, Alderson said he was not second-guessing how the team had responded to the hamstring problem. \u201cI think that\u2019s the nature of these injuries,\u201d he said. Instead, Alderson said, he wanted the team to take a fresh look at how it monitors the players\u2019 daily routines. In Cespedes\u2019s case, he said, the Mets would keep an eye on a variety of factors, from his hydration to his weight-training routine and his stretching. \u201cThere are a number of different things that might have contributed,\u201c Alderson said. \u201cBut we have to figure out something. He might just be susceptible to that kind of injury, and we have to be cognizant of that and make sure we do everything we can to minimize something he may be predisposed to anyway.\u201d Cespedes underwent an ultrasound that showed no significant damage, Alderson said, and the Mets hope that he can return in about 10 days. More help should be arriving earlier than that, however. Noah Syndergaard, who was scratched from a scheduled start at the last minute on Thursday because of mild soreness in his right biceps and shoulder, is slated to start Sunday and has a chance to complete a sweep of the Nationals. Syndergaard, who insisted that he could have started on Thursday, was cleared to play when he threw without trouble during a bullpen session on Friday. Because Syndergaard said he is very in tune with his body, he refused to have a magnetic resonance imaging examination, saying that he knew the soreness was only a minor problem. It is uncommon for a player to decline an M.R.I., Alderson said, \u201cbut I can\u2019t tie him down and throw him in the tube, either.\u201d", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/29/sports/baseball/ny-mets-washington-nationals-sandy-alderson.html", "published_date": "2017-04-28T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Sports", "updated_date": "2017-04-29T17:59:10-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-29T17:59:10-04:00", "abstract": "Before the Mets beat the Nationals for a second straight day, Alderson, the general manager, spoke of taking a look at how the team\u2019s players \u2014 many of whom are hurt \u2014 are trained.", "title": "As Injuries Mount, Mets Executive Says Team Needs to Regroup"}