{"published_date": "2017-04-25T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "On Forest Floors, Wood Anemone Provide a Burst of Spring", "material_type_facet": "News", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/26/nyregion/on-forest-floors-wood-anemone-provide-a-burst-of-spring.html", "updated_date": "2017-04-26T11:56:38-04:00", "text": "The wood anemone is one of spring\u2019s ephemeral joys, and is often the first bit of green to greet hikers in the late winter woods. Though each plant is diminutive, it is connected to an ever-widening colony of plants that seems to bubble up effervescently through a carpet of tired old oak leaves. These dense, almost circular colonies may eventually reach 10 to 12 feet in diameter, and can be composed of hundreds of individual stems. When each plant attains a height of about three to six inches, it produces a striking white or pinkish flower that seems to magically hover over the dark green leaves. From a distance, staring at hundreds of these starry flowers is akin to looking at a galaxy in microcosm, each one sparkling above a dark woodland universe. Still, the beauty of these blooms is best appreciated nose to the ground \u2014 perhaps it is some faint aroma that is absolutely irresistible to early season insect pollinators. The truth is, any extra appeal is probably unnecessary; as lovely as wood anemones are, there is just not that much competition in the early spring woods. Lovers of the botanically arcane may find it surprising that the beautiful wood anemone has only three leaves and not five, as its Latin name \u2014 Anemone quinquefolia \u2014 would suggest. But no matter how dissected and divided each leaf appears, the flower has only three leaves atop each stem. The genus name, anemone, is most likely derived from the Greek word for wind, anemos, and is the source of one of the plant\u2019s most colorful common names: windflower. This breezy association is apparent to anyone patient enough to sit alongside a patch for a quiet minute or two. Supported on thin stems, these graceful flowers are animated by the slightest woodland breeze. Even visiting pollinators set the blooms trembling as they work their way through the tiny cosmos. It is easy to imagine all of this glorious abundance from a bee\u2019s-eye perspective. Slowing hurried humans enough to appreciate this brief but lavish moment in the woodland\u2019s spring may be the anemone\u2019s most significant gift to admirers. One of the best locations to appreciate this lovely early season bloom is Cunningham Park in Queens, where several colonies can be viewed directly from the trail side. Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx also provides opportunities for viewing this spring ephemeral, as do several Staten Island woodlands. Like all spring ephemerals, the clock is always ticking for wood anemone. Tree leaves are expanding above the fragile wildflowers, and each day less and less light pokes through the canopy. By mid-June, the wood anemone and its springtime companions, like trout lily or bloodroot, have celebrated their brief moment in the sun. Some anemone plants may persist a bit longer, but most fade and are not seen again until the following spring. If the colony has been successful, it will spread a little wider next year, and may even produce a few seeds to colonize more distant corners of the woods.", "created_date": "2017-04-26T11:56:38-04:00", "section": "N.Y. / Region", "abstract": "The beauty of these plants, also called windflowers, is best appreciated nose to the ground from a bee\u2019s-eye perspective.", "item_type": "Article"}