{"text": "THE OUTRUN By Amy Liptrot 280 pp. W. W. Norton & Company. $25.95. Amy Liptrot begins her memoir with a glossary: In the Orkney Islands of far northern Scotland, seals are called selkies; cattle are kye; and the fog rolling in from the sea goes by the evocative haar. The place Liptrot uneasily calls home is an enchanted, windswept, salt-scoured archipelago where the northern lights are known as Merry Dancers and \u201clambing\u201d is both a season and a verb. The term most central to Liptrot and this gorgeous debut, its guiding symbol and title, is \u201cthe outrun,\u201d a stretch of uncultivated hillside land at \u201cthe furthest reaches of a farm, only semi-tamed, where domestic and wild animals coexist and humans don\u2019t often visit so spirit people are free to roam.\u201d It is in these wild pastures where Liptrot and her brother grew up with their bipolar father and very religious mother on their family sheep farm. Eager to leave at age 18, Liptrot spent the next decade in London, the antithesis of her bucolic home in the north, transforming herself into a party girl of the Hackney district, a place where \u201cit felt like the perpetual last day of a festival.\u201d It is exactly the excitement she sought when leaving Orkney, but inevitably the party ceases to be fun. As friends and confederates grow up and drink less, Liptrot sinks deeper into alcoholic isolation. She loses all the typical things: friends, boyfriends, apartments, jobs. Soon all decisions (or lack thereof) flow from one primary purpose: getting drunk. One night she is attacked after hitching a ride with a violent stranger, and narrowly escapes, a brush with trauma that a lesser writer would exploit for dramatic effect. Instead, Liptrot makes a realistic, anticlimactic but ultimately braver and more honest narrative decision to reveal her Turning Point as an emotional threshold \u2014 she just couldn\u2019t take the pain of drinking any longer and enrolls herself in rehab. More than 10 years after fleeing, Liptrot returns to the Orkney Islands, chronicling the first two years of her sobriety in this recovery memoir closer in spirit to the work of the naturalist Rick Bass than the hard-drinking tales of Caroline Knapp or Augusten Burroughs. Full of lucid self-discovery and shimmering prose, \u201cThe Outrun\u201d is more atmospheric than it is dramatic. \u201cMy life was rough and windy and tangled. Growing up in the wind leaves you strong, sloped and adept at seeking shelter.\u201d Building drystone walls becomes a lesson in patience; delivering newborn lambs brings a sense of renewal. Metaphors lay things bare with a stunning simplicity as Liptrot searches for answers again and again in her island landscape, all sky and sea, where not even language has the ability to conceal. She does not flee to her parents, somewhat peacefully divorced now and still living on the main island of Orkney. There is a general restraint when writing about her family, vague specters swept away by the much more formative powers of the ocean and wind. What ultimately heals Liptrot and sustains this patiently wrought memoir are the rough and magical islands of Orkney. She gets a job surveying bird populations, eventually spending the winter on one of the smallest islands, Papay, population 70, where her gaze oscillates between her slow, incremental awakening to the sober world and the breathtaking ecology of her home. \u201cThe Outrun\u201d becomes a kind of personal travelogue of the Orkney Islands, their numinous geology and mystical history, from the unique perspective of one who is both an outsider and a native. One imagines Liptrot writing these pages in the spectacular solitude she finds there, writing as much to stave off loneliness as to mine its many gifts, just as alcohol was once both the problem and the solution. It is a hard battle, and the push and pull, the urge to stay and to go, like the wind and the waves, never stops.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/28/books/review/outrun-amy-liptrot.html", "published_date": "2017-04-27T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Books", "updated_date": "2017-04-28T05:00:17-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "Review", "created_date": "2017-04-28T05:00:17-04:00", "abstract": "In \u201cThe Outrun,\u201d Amy Liptrot recalls her decade as a London party girl, followed by the spectacular solitude of Scotland.", "title": "Finding Sobriety in the Rural Rituals of Her Remote Orkney Home"}