{"source": "The New York Times", "updated_date": "2017-04-17T23:24:51-04:00", "material_type_facet": "News", "text": "Airlines have long found ways to entice passengers off their planes. Often, this is a result of flights\u2019 being overbooked, as airlines try to fill as many seats as possible. When they overbook, airlines begin a process of bargaining with passengers at the gate, offering travel vouchers that usually range from $400 to $600, up to a maximum of $1,350, according to Transportation Department guidelines. Sometimes, as was the case when United Airlines removed Dr. David Dao from a plane this month, bargaining was not a result of the flight\u2019s being oversold. Dr. Dao was asked to get off the flight in order to free a seat for a United employee. After he refused, he was forcefully dragged off the plane. Videos of Dr. Dao\u2019s removal surfaced on social media and led hundreds of readers to share their travel stories with The New York Times. Many reported on negative experiences they had with a wide range of airlines on domestic and international flights. Some included the incentives they were offered, or not offered, to give up their seats. Some comments have been edited for space and clarity. Dr. Donald Laub said he was made to get off a plane and take a later flight, and was offered no incentives. Lyn Hogan said her family had a vacation disrupted by their removal from an overbooked flight. They lost a day of prepaid skiing and received flight vouchers they didn\u2019t want. One reader, mb, wrote about his embarrassment over learning that his elite frequent-flier status made him immune to being bumped, even if it meant removing another passenger who had a seat assignment. Not all readers were unhappy with their rebooking experience on an overbooked flight. Val wrote about the cordial way that an international airline handled an overbooked flight. The airline, she said, kindly requested that she forfeit her seat, \u201coffering me a sizable amount of cash before they transported me to a nice hotel, which they paid for, along with paying for my dinner and breakfast the next morning, transporting me back to the airport, and giving me a great seat for my flight home the next day.\u201d Referring to the United Airlines episode, Val wrote: Marlene Dodes-Callahan wrote that a sweetened offer, compared with the typical voucher value, made all the difference.", "abstract": "Hundreds of readers shared their travel stories, many with negative experiences but some who were fine with the incentives offered to give up their seats.", "section": "Business Day", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/17/business/overbooked-airline-passengers-stories.html", "published_date": "2017-04-16T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "Overbooked: Stories of Airline Agony (and Some Rewards)", "item_type": "Article", "created_date": "2017-04-17T23:24:51-04:00"}