{"updated_date": "2017-04-25T16:48:05-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "section": "N.Y. / Region", "abstract": "Officials say the move, which would cause huge disruptions for commuters, is needed because infrastructure at the terminal urgently needs a major overhaul.", "text": "After two derailments at Pennsylvania Station in New York, Amtrak officials are considering closing tracks at the station for an extended period to make long-term repairs \u2014 a drastic move that would cause huge disruptions for tens of thousands of commuters, according to officials who were briefed on the plans. Officials at Amtrak, which owns and operates Penn Station, say the infrastructure at the terminal has become so brittle that it urgently needs a major overhaul. The closings would most likely prompt extensive delays and route changes for two of the nation\u2019s largest railroads, New Jersey Transit and the Long Island Rail Road, which rely on Penn Station. Amtrak leaders have discussed closing several tracks at Penn Station for days or weeks at a time in the coming months, according to officials who were briefed on the discussions but did not want to talk publicly about the plan. Weekday track closings would undoubtedly lead to misery, but officials said Amtrak would try to minimize the inconvenience. As Amtrak officials worked this week to complete plans for repairs, commuters suffered yet another round of delays on Tuesday when an Amtrak train became stuck at Penn Station during the morning commute. On Monday, there were major delays because of track inspections and maintenance work at the station. Christina Leeds, a spokeswoman for Amtrak, said on Tuesday that Amtrak was putting together plans to improve the infrastructure at Penn Station that would result \u201cin some delays and cancellations.\u201d \u201cThis renewal effort will replace and rejuvenate the selected infrastructure providing needed updates and is different than the ongoing repair work\u201d at Penn Station, Ms. Leeds said in a statement. \u201cWe\u2019ll have more on the plans in the coming days and will be working with L.I.R.R. and N.J.T. to schedule this work and minimize service impacts. \u201c The need to expedite the work and upend the lives of so many riders comes after years of failures to invest adequately in aging infrastructure even as ridership boomed in the busiest region of rail travel in the country. New Jersey Transit warned riders on Monday to expect delays for the foreseeable future because speeds on the tracks leading to Penn Station have been reduced because of the poor condition of the tracks. A decision to close tracks during the busiest travel periods would be a break from Amtrak\u2019s traditional strategy of minimizing disruptions to the schedules of the hordes of commuters who pass through the station daily. That approach has limited the railroad to the work its crews can fit into the overnight hours and a 55-hour period on the weekends, when traffic is lighter. Amtrak officials say the time has come to deviate from that upset-the-fewest-customers policy and accept more cancellations and rescheduling in the short term to prevent further derailments, which could result in injuries or worse to passengers and rail workers. The shift also comes at a time of harsh attacks on Amtrak\u2019s management from Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey and officials at New Jersey Transit. Mr. Christie threatened to withhold payments to Amtrak for the shared use of its rails and station platforms. Some Amtrak executives viewed that criticism as the breaking of a compact among partners. After all, they said, it was Mr. Christie who in 2010 unilaterally halted an ambitious project to alleviate commuting congestion by building a rail tunnel between New Jersey and Manhattan. But Amtrak officials have refrained from firing back at Mr. Christie because New Jersey is a partner in Amtrak\u2019s new plan to build a tunnel under the Hudson River. Brian Murray, a spokesman for Mr. Christie, referred questions about Amtrak\u2019s plans to New Jersey Transit. The derailment of a New Jersey Transit train on April 3 was caused by weak timber ties that Amtrak knew needed to be fixed. The accident closed eight of Penn Station\u2019s 21 tracks, setting off a cascade of delays across the three railroads \u2014 the type of disruptions the track closings under discussion could create. Since the Federal Railroad Administration found track defects at Penn Station, Amtrak has imposed a 10-mile-per-hour speed restriction for the entire station, down from 15 m.p.h., until track inspections and repairs are finished, said Marc Willis, a spokesman for the railroad administration. In an interview last week, Amtrak\u2019s new chief executive, Charles W. Moorman, hinted at the disruptions riders would be likely to face. Mr. Moorman said he had walked through the area at Penn Station where the derailments happened and had determined that Amtrak needed to make more long-term repairs soon. \u201cMy conclusion is that what we really need to do down there is just bite the bullet and start a much more significant renewal program,\u201d he said. The problems in recent weeks proved to Mr. Moorman that commuters would not tolerate another derailment. \u201cGiven the implications these days of any incident in that station,\u2019\u2019 Mr. Moorman said, referring to the repair work needed at Penn Station, \u201clet\u2019s just get it done.\u201d Steven H. Santoro, New Jersey Transit\u2019s executive director, met with Mr. Moorman last week, said Nancy Snyder, a spokeswoman for New Jersey Transit. Mr. Santoro discussed \u201cthe importance of New Jersey Transit having a voice at the table around prioritization of track and other maintenance,\u201d along with tunnel evacuation procedures and customer flow at Penn Station, Ms. Snyder said. After the meeting, Mr. Santoro sent a letter to Mr. Moorman on Friday asking for a trove of information about Amtrak\u2019s plans for Penn Station and its evaluation of the infrastructure on the Northeast Corridor. \u201dNew Jersey Transit is willing to continue investing in the maintenance of the Northeast Corridor, provided that Amtrak carries out its end of the bargain and actually maintains the infrastructure in the required state of good repair,\u201d the letter said. Stephen Burkert, a New Jersey Transit union leader and a longtime conductor, questioned why repairs had to be done during daylight. The track closings might force some trains to be redirected to Hoboken Terminal in New Jersey, which is still partly closed because of damage from a fatal derailment of a New Jersey Transit train at the station last year. Amtrak should seek suggestions from workers about how to minimize disruptions since they know the system and regularly interact with riders who are growing increasingly frustrated, he said. \u201cThe commuters have dealt with more than their share of commuting nightmares connected to the multiple track issues,\u201d Mr. Burkert said.", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/25/nyregion/penn-station-repairs-amtrak.html", "published_date": "2017-04-24T20:00:00-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-25T16:07:29-04:00", "material_type_facet": "News", "title": "Amtrak Said to Weigh Extended Track Closings for Penn Station Repairs", "item_type": "Article"}