{"text": "I look for signs. Little facts that I find comforting, like markers on a path telling me I\u2019m headed in the right direction. During college, I was approached to work in retail, something I knew wouldn\u2019t help my future writing career, but the hours were flexible enough that I saw its appeal. Still, I debated whether to take the job, until I learned that the designer\u2019s sister was named Gianna, and his son Gianni. Marker No. 1: You, Gian, are meant to sell clothing. The building was cavernous, with a floor made from the walls of an old barn, everything painted in serene shades of green and gray. And though the location was ideal, in the midst of the bustling Old Town of Pasadena, Calif., the regulations were such that the original storefront couldn\u2019t be altered, and as a result our door looked like a freight entrance. People walked right past us. Sometimes they\u2019d call on the phone, lost, and we\u2019d race into the courtyard to find them, but often they simply gave up and got a burger next door. This did not translate well into sales, and I was no retail queen. But the pay was decent, and I loved my co-workers, a random mix of people who, like me, cared minimally for retail but needed the steady check. For great chunks of the day, we had not even one customer. So we played cards. We tried watching movies on the TV monitors. We hid magazines by the registers and played inappropriate music when no one was around. It\u2019s not that we didn\u2019t care about our work, it\u2019s just that there were only so many sweaters to fold and the glass cases could only be so streak-free. So ultimately, while the cat was away, the mice would play uncensored rap music and perhaps smoke too close to the entryway. Though I loved my job, my every day was edged in guilt. I was not only working at something unrelated to writing, but I was barely working. This degree I was suddenly about to get would be wasted. How would retail help me as a writer? Then again, did my day job need to help me as a writer? As a future novelist, my writing would always happen during those odd, barely missed hours. What did it matter how I paid my rent? I suppose here is where I should mention that I\u2019ve always been a bit psychic. My mother loves to tell the story of 5-year-old me standing in the living room, suddenly asking her what an \u201cearthquake\u201d was. The television wasn\u2019t on, there was no radio playing softly. It was as if suddenly the word came to me and I just didn\u2019t know what it meant. So she explained. And while she did, the earth started to shake. I once dreamed that a friend stapled her finger, and the next day it happened. Another time I dreamed that a cat was stuck up a 50-foot eucalyptus tree, and then two days later I was on the phone with my brother as a cat was stuck up a 50-foot tree just outside his window. \u201cWhat kind of tree?\u201d I asked. \u201cEucalyptus,\u201d he told me. Was anyone helped by this? I didn\u2019t take the dream about my friend seriously enough to warn her in time. Could I have been able to locate that particular tree so the cat couldn\u2019t climb it? Not a chance. Nevertheless, I learned to trust my instincts and to suspect that now and then my dreams might have meaning. So when I had a very dark dream about the manager at the store where I worked, and that something bad happened at the store as a result, it stuck with me. The very next day, my colleagues and I discovered that our manager was stealing money, and the dream made sense. Of course, we had no choice but to go to our district manager, who came in right away for a confrontation. Our manager confessed, claiming that he had simply borrowed the money with the intention of returning it. But the excuse made no difference. And just like that, we needed someone for the job. \u201cI know writing is your thing,\u201d the district manager said, \u201cbut this is more money, and it\u2019s yours if you want it.\u201d So, move to New York, and get into publishing? Stay in Los Angeles and work at one of the few magazines in town? Those were the shoulds. Those were my sensible, long-term options. But when you\u2019re young, it always feels as if there\u2019s time. It\u2019s only in hindsight that you see that what had been before you was a giant, momentum-gathering slope. \u201cLater,\u201d I\u2019d think to myself. \u201cLater, I can do those things.\u201d And then, at my core, was the feeling why. Why would I have had the dream \u2014 one that actually applied to my life \u2014 if I wasn\u2019t meant to take the job? Marker No. 2: You were meant to manage this store. I took the job. For well over a year, I was the manager, and the whole time I was tormented, feeling those looming shoulds, worried that days steaming suits and becoming ruthless at the card game Big Two was a waste. Then one night while closing the store, I started craving a burrito. I got in the car and was debating where to get this burrito, when suddenly my car felt wrong. The left side seemed to drag, as if both driver\u2019s side tires were flat. I was crushed by a feeling of impending danger. There was no way I could get on the freeway, because something was very off. So I pulled into a grocery store, one I normally wouldn\u2019t have gone to, right into a spot below the bright, safe lights, and I got out to inspect my car. All was fine. Tires full. Not a dent to be found. Still, I stood there, so convinced that something had been wrong, so strongly had I felt the threat. At last I gave up and walked inside the store. I was in the bread aisle, the very first aisle past the front door, when I heard the sounds of a giant clapping his hands three times. That was what my mind told me. It was a giant clapping, because, of course, that makes much more sense than gunshots. Eventually, my mind let plausibility back in, and I continued my shopping, over the sound of sirens, somehow unfazed. When I walked outside, there, under those nice, safe, bright lights, was my car, surrounded by police tape. A bullet had gone straight through the driver\u2019s window \u2014 lined up just in front of the headrest \u2014 and out the passenger side. Another behind it had gone straight through the back-seat windows. The third bullet, they found on the ground nearby, not having hit a thing. After taking my statement, the police told me I had missed being shot by under a minute. The shooter, I would learn, had fired at a car driving by, but had terrible aim. Simply put, my car had been in the wrong place at the wrong time. And yet, I was convinced, it was the impending danger I had felt that had led me to park it right there. My trying to avoid something had actually created it. Or had it? Was that how strong fate was, that in trying to steer clear of something you could actually swerve right into its course? I didn\u2019t know. I still don\u2019t. Similarly, I thought I had taken that job because I was supposed to. And maybe in a way that\u2019s true, just as I was meant to try and escape a danger that instead put me in harm\u2019s way. All I know is after that, I was no longer tormented. Perhaps it was missing a bullet that had put life into perspective. But I felt a sense of trust I had never experienced before. Not long after that night, our corporate office came to terms with our horrible numbers, and it opted to close the store. It was terrifying. Not only was I out of work, but I had years on my r\u00e9sum\u00e9 that wouldn\u2019t help me get the job I wanted. Strangely though, I was able to breathe. I didn\u2019t feel the guilt of wasted years or wrong choices. Something in me had changed, because that night in the parking lot I had seen it. Marker No. 3: You are meant to be right here. And despite my worries or protests, I knew I would always end up where I needed to be.", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/21/jobs/retail-career-psychic.html", "published_date": "2017-04-20T20:00:00-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "created_date": "2017-04-21T12:00:18-04:00", "abstract": "An aspiring writer comes to realize that a largely unrewarding stint in retail was actually meant to be.", "title": "Seeing Signs that a Career Detour Was the Right Choice", "material_type_facet": "News", "section": "Job Market", "item_type": "Article", "updated_date": "2017-04-21T12:00:18-04:00"}