{"title": "Review: Gifted Singers and an English Translation Enhance a Janacek Opera", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/23/arts/music/review-gifted-singers-and-an-english-translation-enhance-a-janacek-opera.html", "updated_date": "2017-04-23T17:36:33-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "section": "Arts", "published_date": "2017-04-22T20:00:00-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-23T17:36:33-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "material_type_facet": "Review", "text": "In a crucial early scene of Janacek\u2019s \u201cKatya Kabanova,\u201d the title character, a young woman trapped in a stultifying marriage to a timid merchant in a town on the Volga, recalls memories of her carefree childhood. As a girl, Katya tells Varvara, her adopted sister-in-law, she would rise early on summer days, wash in the stream and tend to every flower in her house. Going to church was like falling into a trance, Katya says; she imagined rising to heaven to watch angels fly. Janacek\u2019s restless music suggests that this nostalgic confession is fraught with Katya\u2019s instability. The emotional complexities came through strongly on Friday night when the Juilliard School opened a production of \u201cKatya Kabanova\u201d by the director Stephen Wadsworth at the Peter Jay Sharp Theater \u2014 and not just because the soprano Felicia Moore, as Katya, sang so expressively. The dramatic impact was enhanced because the opera was performed in an English translation of Janacek\u2019s original Czech libretto. It used to be common, if never the prevailing practice, for operas to be translated into the language of the audience, especially in the United States. This was especially true for less familiar works, though I have wonderful early memories of hearing staples like \u201cThe Marriage of Figaro\u201d and \u201cLa Boh\u00e8me\u201d performed in English. This practice involves a trade-off. Great composers wrote vocal lines that hewed to the sounds and flow of the words in the libretto, and that bond is hard to mimic even in the best translations. The advantage is the direct communication between singers and audiences that can result. The popularity of supertitles has sidelined the honored tradition of performing opera in translation. This is understandable, but also a loss, as this engrossing production of Janacek\u2019s rustic tragedy, first performed in Brno in 1921, made clear. Though the English words of the translation (by Yveta Synek Graff and Robert T. Jones) were projected above the stage as the cast members sang them, the diction of the singers was good enough that for whole stretches I could ignore the screen and just listen. It helped that the theater is an intimate space seating about 1,000. Singing in English seemed to embolden the gifted students of this strong cast. The tenor Miles Mykkanen conveyed the mix of insecurity and earnestness in Tichon, Katya\u2019s husband, who lives in fear of his caustic and possessive mother, Kabanicha, the widow of a prosperous merchant. The mezzo-soprano Sara Couden, the mother, delivered tirades at her son in chilling tones. Katya fears that some devilish force lurks within her. Temptation comes in the unlikely form of Boris (the tenor Gerard Schneider), the meek nephew of a rich merchant (the muscular-voiced bass Alex Rosen), who heads a neighboring family. Boris must endure his uncle\u2019s contempt because his inheritance is conditional upon the uncle\u2019s approval. Boris has fallen for Katya and seizes the chance to be with her when her husband is away. Mr. Schneider brought out Boris\u2019s desperate longing for Katya through his plangent singing during their illicit love scene. Among these tormented townsfolk Janacek includes two young people who openly embrace their romantic feelings: Kudrjas (the ardent tenor Sam Levine), a self-educated clerk, and Varvara (the beguiling mezzo-soprano Samantha Hankey), Katya\u2019s only confidante. For this production, with sets by Charlie Corcoran, Mr. Wadsworth mostly situates the action in an eerily spacious room, a combination bed chamber and sitting salon. But with the use of flecked lighting and the odd prop \u2014 a swinging iron gate, a mossy patch \u2014 the space also suggested a riverbank, a garden at night and a ruined building during a storm. Mr. Wadsworth might have gone further in giving the staging an abstract, surreal look. Still, the room manifested the emotional claustrophobia of the story. Janacek\u2019s music ingeniously blends folkloric Moravian elements, fragmented phrases and an elusive harmonic language to expose the raw undercurrents of the everyday characters. All these qualities came through vividly in the rich, surging performance led by the conductor Anne Manson. Though Ms. Moore captured Katya\u2019s girlish effusions, she seemed less sure delving into the character\u2019s murky depths. She was at her best during the final scene, when the guilt-ridden, distraught Katya imagines her grave being visited by birds and then drowns herself in the river. Hearing this soliloquy sung in English was doubly powerful.", "abstract": "An impressive cast at the Juilliard School, performing an English translation of Janacek\u2019s \u201cKatya Kabanova,\u201d brings special intensity to a rustic tragedy."}