{"title": "Charge Rodrigo Duterte With Mass Murder, Lawyer Tells The Hague", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/24/world/asia/rodrigo-duterte-philippines-icc-complaint.html", "updated_date": "2017-04-24T03:48:48-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "section": "World", "published_date": "2017-04-23T20:00:00-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-24T03:48:48-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "material_type_facet": "News", "text": "JAKARTA, Indonesia \u2014 A Filipino lawyer asked the International Criminal Court in The Hague on Monday to charge President Rodrigo Duterte and 11 other Philippine officials with mass murder and crimes against humanity in the killings of thousands of people over three decades. The lawyer, Jude Josue Sabio, said in a 77-page complaint that Mr. Duterte was the \u201cmastermind\u201d of a campaign that has killed more than 9,400 people, mostly poor young men, since 1988, when Mr. Duterte was first elected mayor of Davao City in the southern Philippines. \u201cThe situation in the Philippines reveals a terrifying, gruesome and disastrous continuing commission of extrajudicial executions or mass murder from the time President Duterte was the mayor of Davao City,\u201d the complaint says. Mr. Sabio represents two men who say they were paid assassins for Mr. Duterte when he was mayor of Davao City, but filed the case on his own. The court has the authority to accept cases brought by individuals as well as by nations and the United Nations Security Council. Mr. Duterte was elected president last year after pledging to kill criminals as part of what he called a war on drugs. Since taking office last June, he has repeatedly urged the police to kill suspects and has promised to protect or pardon police officers who are prosecuted. According to police statistics, more than 4,000 people have been killed by the police in antidrug operations or by vigilantes in drug-related cases since Mr. Duterte became president. Mr. Sabio\u2019s complaint puts that number at more than 8,000. In addition, the complaint cites the killings of more than 1,400 people who Mr. Sabio and rights advocates say were killed over 28 years in Mr. Duterte\u2019s anti-crime campaign in Davao City. The complaint also names Justice Secretary Vitaliano Aguirre; the national police chief, Ronald dela Rosa; House of Representatives Speaker Pantaleon Alvarez; and two senators, Peter Cayetano and Richard Gordon. The Duterte government did not respond immediately to the filing, but last month, after it was accused of crimes against humanity by Human Rights Watch, a spokesman for Mr. Duterte rejected that allegation. \u201cA war on criminality is not a war on humanity,\u201d said the spokesman, Ernesto Abella. \u201cOn the contrary, it is a war precisely to protect humanity from a modern-day evil. To say otherwise is to undermine society\u2019s legitimate desire to be free from fear and to pander to the interests of the criminals.\u201d The International Criminal Court, which handles cases of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, was founded by international agreement. The Philippines signed on in 2011. The court may take cases only under certain conditions, including when a nation\u2019s own judicial system is unable or unwilling to investigate or prosecute. Mr. Sabio has represented two men, Edgar Matobato and Arturo Lasca\u00f1as, who say they were members of the Davao Death Squad, a unit they say was created and directed by Mr. Duterte when he was mayor of Davao City. Both have said publicly that the death squad was formed with the aim of going after small-time drug dealers but was also used to eliminate Mr. Duterte\u2019s political opponents. Mr. Sabio\u2019s complaint says that after becoming president, Mr. Duterte replicated the methods used by the Davao Death Squad nationwide, including the planting of false evidence, cash payments to killers, cooperation with the local authorities, and police participation and command. \u201cThe basic material hallmarks or elements in the extrajudicial executions in the Davao Death Squad in Davao City and in the continued extrajudicial executions after President Duterte became the president are too numerous and too obvious to escape scant attention,\u201d the complaint says. The complaint cites investigations by Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International and a statement from the Catholic Bishops\u2019 Conference of the Philippines denouncing the antidrug campaign as a \u201creign of terror.\u201d Mr. Sabio argues that the international court has the responsibility to investigate and prosecute the people responsible for the killings because an impartial investigation would be impossible in the Philippines, where the president and his allies control the country\u2019s political and legal systems. There have been few investigations by the police of killings by police officers, who stand to be pardoned if convicted. An investigation in the Philippine Senate was derailed by Mr. Duterte\u2019s allies in Congress, and the senator leading it jailed on drug charges she says were intended to silence her. The Philippines Human Rights Commission conducted an investigation in 2009 of the killings in Davao, but no prosecution resulted. An opposition lawmaker filed an impeachment complaint against Mr. Duterte last month, accusing him of murder and crimes against humanity, but the resolution has little chance of passing in a House dominated by Duterte allies. \u201cDuring the time that he was the mayor of Davao City, President Duterte never even lifted a finger to investigate the thousand killings undertaken under the Davao Death Squad,\u201d the complaint says. \u201cThis is precisely because on hindsight he is personally involved.\u201d", "abstract": "A complaint filed with the International Criminal Court said that the Philippine president was the \u201cmastermind\u201d of a campaign that has killed more than 9,400 people since 1988."}