{"text": "MOSCOW \u2014 Aleksei A. Navalny, the Russian opposition leader, said on Tuesday that a doctor told him he had lost 80 percent of sight in one eye after suffering a chemical burn when an assailant threw a green liquid in his face last week. The eye\u2019s vision may improve, but the outlook is unclear, Mr. Navalny wrote on his website, citing his doctor. Initially, the attack had appeared less serious; dousing opposition figures with green dye is a common occurrence and often attributed to pro-Kremlin activists. Typically, a type of topical medical disinfectant has been used. It is difficult to wash out but harmless. Mr. Navalny, who has declared his intention to run in Russia\u2019s presidential election next year, had already once this spring been splashed in the face with green dye, without any adverse affects. But after the attack on Thursday, in which a man threw the green liquid in the opposition leader\u2019s face and then ran away, Mr. Navalny was taken to a hospital to treat burning in his right eye. In a post on his website on Tuesday, Mr. Navalny said his ophthalmologist told him that he had a \u201cchemical burn on the right eye\u201d caused by something other than the green-colored disinfectant. \u201cThere was clearly a mix of disinfectant and another, caustic chemical,\u201d Mr. Navalny wrote. \u201cI am being actively treated, and there is hope that it will be cured,\u201d he wrote. Over the weekend, Mr. Navalny joked that \u201cwe are fighting for the eye to remain transparent, but if that doesn\u2019t succeed (and there is a chance, alas) then Russia will have a president with a stylish, white eye.\u201d Noting that the dousing attacks were growing more serious, Mr. Navalny also posted pictures of Hollywood-style special effects, humorous suggestions about his possible appearance by the time next year\u2019s election rolls around. One depicted Mr. Navalny as the Terminator character, with one glowing red eye. Another showed a man with half his face melted away, revealing his grinning teeth. A pro-Kremlin television station, Ren-TV, has broadcast video of the attack, which was apparently filmed by an accomplice of the assailant, whose face is digitally blurred. Nonetheless, supporters of Mr. Navalny have said they identified the man, based on his build and clothes, as the same pro-government activist who last year splashed urine on photographs by the American photographer Jock Sturges at a Moscow art gallery, forcing the exhibit to close. Mr. Navalny, in the post on Tuesday, said he believed that this identification was correct. The Moscow police have formally opened an investigation but appear to be stalling, Mr. Navalny wrote, as they have not interviewed witnesses from among his supporters, sought surveillance video or made arrests. Attacks on Russian opposition politicians are seldom solved. In 2015, assailants shot to death Boris Y. Nemtsov, a former deputy prime minister, on a sidewalk near the Kremlin. The authorities have put a man suspected of being the gunman, along with his accomplices, on trial, but they have made no headway in finding out who ordered the assassination. In an attack in 2013 related to internal politics within the Bolshoi Theater, an assailant splashed acid in the face of the artistic director, Sergei Y. Filin, disfiguring and partly blinding him.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/02/world/europe/russia-aleksei-navalny-opposition.html", "published_date": "2017-05-01T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "World", "updated_date": "2017-05-02T15:24:53-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-02T15:24:53-04:00", "abstract": "The opposition leader said a doctor told him that he had lost 80 percent of his sight in one eye after suffering a chemical burn when an assailant threw a liquid in his face.", "title": "Kremlin Critic Aleksei Navalny Says Attack Left Him Mostly Blind in an Eye"}