{"text": "Betsy DeVos\u2019s favorite education policy keeps looking worse. Last week, the Education Department, which she runs, released a careful study of the District of Columbia\u2019s use of school vouchers, which she supports. The results were not good. Students using vouchers to attend a private school did worse on math and reading than similar students in public school, the study found. It comes after other studies, in Ohio and elsewhere, have also shown weak results for vouchers. To channel President Trump: Who knew that education could be so complicated? The question for DeVos is whether she\u2019s an ideologue committed to prior beliefs regardless of facts or someone who has an open mind. But that question doesn\u2019t apply only to DeVos. It also applies to all of us trying to think about education, including her critics. And the results from Washington are important partly because they defy easy ideological conclusions. Before diving into those results, I want to make two broader points. First, education isn\u2019t just another issue. It is the most powerful force for accelerating economic growth, reducing poverty and lifting middle-class living standards. Well-educated adults earn much more, live longer and are happier than poorly educated adults. When researchers try to tease out whether education does much to cause these benefits, the answer appears to be yes. Second, the highly charged debate over education often lapses into misleading caricature. On one side of the caricature are defenders of traditional public schools, who believe in generous funding, small class sizes and teacher training. On the other are so-called reformers, who believe in vouchers, charter schools and standardized tests. Unfortunately, this caricature mixes several ideas that do not necessarily go together. In particular, it conflates vouchers (coupons that let parents use their tax dollars for private schools) with charter schools (public schools that operate outside the usual bureaucracy). Hard-core reformers, like DeVos, support vouchers and charters. Hard-core traditionalists oppose both. The rest of us should distinguish between them, because their results differ. Vouchers have been disappointing. They are based on the free-market theory that parents will choose good schools over bad ones. It\u2019s a reasonable theory, and vouchers can have benefits, like allowing children to leave dangerous schools. For the most part, though, identifying a good school is hard for parents. Conventional wisdom usually defines a good school as one attended by high-achieving students, which is easy to measure. But that\u2019s akin to concluding that all of LeBron James\u2019s coaches have been geniuses. Unlike most voucher programs, many charter-school systems are subject to rigorous evaluation and oversight. Local officials decide which charters can open and expand. Officials don\u2019t get every decision right, but they are able to evaluate schools based on student progress and surveys of teachers and families. As a result, many charters have flourished, especially in places where traditional schools have struggled. This evidence comes from top academic researchers, studying a variety of places, including Washington, Boston, Denver, New Orleans, New York, Florida and Texas. The anecdotes about failed charters are real, but they\u2019re not the norm. Douglas Harris, a Tulane professor, says the difference between charters and vouchers boils down to \u201cmanaged competition\u201d versus the \u201cfree market.\u201d Susan Dynarski of the University of Michigan talks about charters\u2019 successfully combining flexibility and accountability. Joshua Angrist of M.I.T. says, \u201cFlexibility alone is not enough.\u201d Crucially, many charters are open to all comers, which means their success doesn\u2019t stem from skimming off the best. And the schools\u2019 benefits extend beyond test scores to more meaningful metrics, like college graduation. The District of Columbia study highlights the charter/voucher contrast in a neat way. The voucher results look so weak \u2014 even worse than elsewhere \u2014 partly because the city\u2019s charters are so strong. That is, voucher recipients are being compared with children at higher-performing public schools than in the past, and the voucher schools aren\u2019t keeping up. It\u2019s an argument for a political compromise: fewer vouchers, more charters. If you\u2019re a progressive, I realize that this compromise may make you squeamish. Progressives often prefer to spend more on traditional schools \u2014 which are still crucial \u2014 and to trust them. But I would encourage you to look at the full evidence with an open mind. Charters have the potential to help a lot of poor children in the immediate future, and it\u2019s hard to think of a more important progressive goal. As for Secretary DeVos, I hope she is similarly open to new facts. It seems a reasonable expectation for somebody whose title is secretary of education.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/02/opinion/school-vouchers-charters-betsy-devos.html", "published_date": "2017-05-01T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Opinion", "updated_date": "2017-05-02T03:24:11-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "Op-Ed", "created_date": "2017-05-02T03:21:12-04:00", "abstract": "Charters and vouchers, often lumped together, are very different.", "title": "School Vouchers Aren\u2019t Working, but Choice Is"}