{"abstract": "The report said the wall could cost nearly $70 billion to build, a far cry from an internal estimate of $21.6 billion by the Department of Homeland Security.", "item_type": "Article", "text": "WASHINGTON \u2014 A report released on Tuesday by Senate Democrats found that President Trump\u2019s plans to build a border wall could cost more than three times as much as initial estimates, adding that the administration has yet to provide Congress with evidence to show that a wall would be effective in stopping the flow of illegal immigration and drugs. The report said the border wall could cost nearly $70 billion to build and $150 million a year to maintain. An internal report by the Department of Homeland Security said the wall could cost about $21.6 billion, not including maintenance. The new report, which was prepared by the Democratic staff of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, also found that the construction of a wall would require taking hundreds of acres of private land at a cost of millions to taxpayers and would divert money from crucial mobile video surveillance technology. \u201cThe staff just wanted to summarize where we are at this point, given the lack of substantive answers coming from the administration,\u201d said Drew Pusateri, a spokesman for the Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri and ranking member on the committee. The Department of Homeland Security said that it was still studying the best places to construct such barriers, and was premature to discuss cost estimates. The report comes as Congress prepares to vote on a stopgap funding measure to avoid a potential government shutdown on April 28. Republican leaders, including Speaker Paul D. Ryan, have said that funding for a border wall could be put off until next year, as he and other congressional leaders try to overcome both Democratic opposition to the project and Republican concerns about massive spending. In his budget request to Congress, Mr. Trump asked for $1.4 billion to pay for the initial development of the wall. The Department of Homeland Security said enough funding had been moved from other programs to begin construction. The department has diverted $20 million from other programs at the agency to begin construction of border wall prototypes. Despite the lack of dedicated funding, the Trump administration has moved forward. Customs and Border Protection, the parent agency of the Border Patrol, said more than 230 companies had submitted proposals to build border wall prototypes. According to briefing documents from the agency, the first new section of the wall will be built on a short strip of federally owned land in San Diego, where there is already fencing. John F. Kelly, the homeland security secretary, told members of Congress this month that it was doubtful that a wall along the full border with Mexico would ever be built, despite the oft-repeated campaign promise by Mr. Trump. \u201cIt is unlikely that we will build a wall from sea to shining sea,\u201d Mr. Kelly told senators on the Homeland Security Committee. According to agency documents, construction of a wall in the Rio Grande Valley region of Texas is a priority. The area has been a central entry point for asylum seekers fleeing persecution in Central America and a popular smuggling route for drug cartels. In some areas, smugglers can in minutes cross the Rio Grande, hide in the thick scrub and make their way into urban areas. The department has proposed building a 28-mile levee wall in one area and an additional six-mile barrier system near Rio Grande City. Funding aside, Mr. Trump\u2019s border wall may face other obstacles, as the number of people caught trying to sneak into the United States has dropped. In March, apprehensions and arrests along the Mexican border plummeted to the lowest monthly figure in more than 17 years, Mr. Kelly said during a speech at George Washington University on Tuesday. He said the steep decline was attributable to the president\u2019s hard-line approach to illegal immigration. Mr. Kelly said his department had not yet changed how the border is patrolled. But he said Mr. Trump\u2019s tough stance on illegal immigration had probably deterred people from trying to enter the country. \u201cThe numbers are lower because we are serious about securing our borders and enforcing our immigrations laws,\u201d Mr. Kelly said.", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/18/us/politics/senate-democrats-border-wall-cost-trump.html", "source": "The New York Times", "updated_date": "2017-04-18T15:05:52-04:00", "material_type_facet": "News", "published_date": "2017-04-17T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "Border Wall Could Cost 3 Times Estimates, Senate Democrats\u2019 Report Says", "created_date": "2017-04-18T15:05:52-04:00", "section": "U.S."}