{"text": "Wherever there\u2019s an abundance of rain and snow, it seems Subaru rules the roads. And though Subarus aren\u2019t flashy, their owners, according to Consumer Reports and Kelley Blue Book, are consistently happy with their cars. Nasty conditions are good for business. Fans of the brand have something more to smile about (and not just spring). The 2017 Impreza is new, the first to ride on Subaru\u2019s new scalable global platform. Automakers crow when a vehicle gains 10 percent in structural rigidity. Impreza\u2019s unibody strength moved up by a whopping 70 percent. That will impress engineers and the entire state of Maine, where Subarus appear to be the official state car. Hit a pothole \u2014 it\u2019s hard not to these days \u2014 and the Impreza remains drum tight. Loyal buyers never seemed to mind that Subaru\u2019s sense of style has been off on an extended camping trip. The new Impreza looks as though a design team was part of the process from Day 1. It\u2019s not the George Clooney of cars, but purposeful sheet metal creases give it an agreeable form. My eye prefers the five-door hatchback model. I drove a sedan Sport model with options that take it to $26,560. Base Imprezas with a 5-, yes, 5-speed manual transmission start at $19,215. Subaru interiors have been as spartan as a backcountry campsite. Kudos to the product planners who cajoled the accountants into springing for improved materials in the cabin. There is honest-to-goodness stitching on the instrument panel and quality plastics and fabrics where eyes fall and fingers touch. The touch screen interface with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto is well executed. Chevy Cruze wins the interior ambience contest, but Impreza finally loses the penalty box vibe. Let\u2019s not forget that the Cruze plus the Honda Civic, the Hyundai Elantra, the Toyota Corolla and the rest of this segment lack Impreza\u2019s standard all-wheel drive. Another Subaru advantage is the Boxer engine. Most engine pistons fire vertically; Boxer power plants pump in horizontal fashion. That allows the 2-liter 4-cylinder to lie deep in the engine bay for a low center of gravity. Subaru happily points out that Porsche takes this approach in its sports cars. Porsche does not reciprocate. With 152 horsepower and 145 pound-feet of torque, the Sport gets no additional power, but the suspension is upgraded with shock-absorbing Stablex dampers. The Sport\u2019s rear spoiler, red dashboard stitching, aluminum pedal covers and obviously faux carbon fiber trim create an impression of power that the engine can\u2019t deliver. Accelerating from a stoplight to 60 miles an hour takes about 9 seconds. A WRX this is not. The tested continuously variable transmission, an $800 option, generally mimics the feel of a 7-speed automatic unless the throttle is mashed against the carpet. Then, the usual gliding dynamic comes into play. Tug at the steering wheel paddle shifters and simulated gearshifts are convincing. The Sport model gets active torque vectoring. Bend into turns and the outer front wheel gets more power, giving the Impreza a more natural feel though the arc. Most cars achieve this by pulsing the inner rear brake. Add up the torque vectoring, suspension and the low center of gravity provided by the Boxer engine and the Sport is a fine companion on twisty roads. It\u2019s up there with Honda Civic Sport and Volkswagen Golf. Impreza provokes grins, even on those suffering from seasonal affective disorder after a long winter. It\u2019s moderately quiet, too. My car was equipped with a $2,945 package that included Subaru\u2019s EyeSight tech. Employing two cameras mounted near the rearview mirror, it provides Impreza with automatic emergency braking, adaptive cruise control, lane-departure warning and blind-spot monitoring. Use the auto braking once and the investment is sound. And even if the braking never saves you, the package includes a respectable Harman Kardon sound system and a sunroof. All-wheel drive cuts into fuel economy. The Civic averages six miles per gallon more than the Impreza. In mixed driving, I saw 28 miles per gallon against the Environmental Protection Agency rating of 27 city, 36 highway. Complaints? Arguably, more seat side bolstering should come on a Sport branded car. The HVAC system lacks an automatic temperature setting. And while the price point explains the absence of a heated steering wheel, it would be perfect for Subaru drivers. Am I right or am I right? Impreza\u2019s back seat will welcome two adults with good foot, leg, knee and headroom. It\u2019s a basic space, though, lacking adjustable air vents, a power port, folding center armrest and a pocket on the back of the driver\u2019s chair. The sedan\u2019s trunk can take on a bike after dropping the 60/40 split seats. But really, the hatchback model, with its wide opening, is far better at that. You should know that the second-generation Crosstrek, essentially the Impreza hatchback with rugged body cladding and additional ground clearance, will be heading into showrooms soon. The scalable platform that Impreza rides on will also carry the new three-row Ascent sport utility vehicle in early 2018. The new Impreza is a solid effort by Subaru to add style and refinement to a car loved by loyalists. And with its sales increasing every year since 2007, the company is attracting new fans at a steady rate. Impreza is a smart proposition that looks even better on a stormy day.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/27/automobiles/autoreviews/subaru-impreza.html", "published_date": "2017-04-26T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Automobiles", "updated_date": "2017-04-27T18:18:16-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-27T18:12:30-04:00", "abstract": "The new Impreza Sport looks as though a design team was part of the process from Day 1. And it looks even better on stormy days.", "title": "Video Review: Subaru Impreza, Still Solid, but a Little More Stylish"}