{"text": "JERUSALEM \u2014 Syrian and rebel officials blamed Israel for several explosions on Thursday morning at warehouses near the Damascus airport, which the Israeli news media said had been used to transfer weapons to the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah. Israel, which has carried out attacks on precision missiles and other forms of advanced weaponry in the past, did not directly confirm or deny the attack, in keeping with its policy. But Yisrael Katz, the intelligence minister, seemed to acknowledge as much, saying the developments at the Damascus airport were \u201cconsistent\u201d with Israel\u2019s policy of not allowing Hezbollah to obtain such weaponry. \u201cI can confirm that the incident in Syria completely conforms to Israel\u2019s policy, to act so as to prevent the smuggling of advanced weapons from Syria to Hezbollah in Lebanon by Iran,\u201d he told Army Radio. \u201cWhen we receive intelligence that points to the intention to transfer advanced weapons to Hezbollah, we will act. This incident conforms completely to that policy.\u201d Yoav Galant, the Israeli construction minister, also declined to confirm the strikes but told Channel 10, \u201cOur enemies must know: We will know to use our power to protect our interests by ourselves.\u201d Large explosions were heard miles from the Damascus airport, and the glow of flames was seen in the distance, according to residents in the area. Sana, the state-run Syrian news agency, said that Israel had carried out missile strikes on the Damascus airport, but it did not specify what had been hit. The Lebanese news channel Al Mayadeen reported that Israeli missiles had traveled over the Golan Heights, and that Israeli jets had not entered Syrian airspace. Last month, Israel took the rare step of confirming that it had carried out several strikes in central Syria, also against what it said were efforts to transfer weapons to Hezbollah. The Shiite group is aligned with Iran and is fighting in Syria alongside forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad. The Syrian government responded by firing antiaircraft missiles at Israeli jets, but these were in turn shot down by Israel\u2019s new antimissile system Arrow, which the Israeli news media said had been deployed for the first time. Israel has carried out intermittent strikes inside Syria, fearing that Iran is helping Hezbollah build its arsenal amid the chaos of the war. The explosion last May that killed Mustafa Badreddine, a senior Hezbollah commander, was also widely believed to have been carried out by Israel in the military section of the Damascus airport. Hezbollah and Iran have offices there for military officers and advisers assisting with the war in Syria. Many of the strikes around Damascus and the Lebanese border are believed to have targeted weapons destined for Hezbollah in Lebanon. But Israel has also struck both Hezbollah and Syrian military targets in southern Syria, in what appears to be an effort to prevent the militant group from gaining a foothold on the boundary between Syria and the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights. Israel, which annexed the Golan Height after seizing it from Syria in the 1967 war, a move not recognized under international law, counts Hezbollah as its most potent threat; it fought a monthlong war with the group across the Lebanese-Israeli border in 2006. Both sides say they do not want another war but are prepared to fight one. Hezbollah took reporters on a tour of the Lebanese-Israeli border this month to show Israeli fortifications to be used in the event of a violent conflict.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/27/world/middleeast/syria-damascus-airport-israel-hezbollah.html", "published_date": "2017-04-26T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "World", "updated_date": "2017-04-27T06:24:40-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-27T06:23:18-04:00", "abstract": "The Israeli news media said airport warehouses had been used to transfer weapons to the Lebanese militant group Hezbollah, but officials did not confirm or deny a strike.", "title": "Explosions Rock Damascus Airport; Syria Blames Israel"}