{"updated_date": "2017-04-19T05:00:13-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-19T05:00:13-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/04/opinion/campaign-stops/take-back-the-house-democrats-please.html", "abstract": "The candidacy of Donald Trump offers a unique opportunity the party would be foolish to miss.", "section": "Opinion", "published_date": "2016-09-02T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "Take Back the House, Democrats. Please.", "material_type_facet": "Op-Ed", "source": "The New York Times", "text": "Ithaca, N.Y. \u2014 RECENT polls put Hillary Clinton slightly ahead of Donald Trump in traditionally Republican states like Georgia and close even in South Carolina. Should she make the serious investment necessary to put those states in play for real? Or should she ignore them and invest the same money in traditional battleground states? If the only concern were to minimize Mr. Trump\u2019s chances of winning, it would be an easy call: Caution would dictate focusing exclusively on swing states. Yet as basic economic principles make clear, caution dictates no such thing. Most people prefer not to take risks, yes, but reducing one risk sometimes creates greater exposure to another. For example, Republican congressional majorities have repeatedly blocked our rapidly dwindling opportunity to mitigate climate change, which is one of several crucial areas where they have failed us. Immigration reform, income inequality and civil rights also come to mind. The point is that expenditures on the presidential campaign must be weighed against those for congressional races. To get what they want, Democrats must go all in. The Democratic Party comp seems poised to recapture its Senate majority this year, but the House is a different matter. Many warn that the current 61-seat Republican majority, much of it achieved by post-2010 gerrymandering, has made flipping the lower chamber an unrealistic goal. But that view betrays a misunderstanding of how partisan gerrymandering actually works. One aim of the practice has been to reconfigure electoral boundaries to transfer redundant votes from safe districts into swing districts. If one district usually votes 60 percent Republican and an adjacent one votes 48 percent Republican, for example, boundaries might be redrawn so that each would vote 54 percent Republican. In a typical election year, the formerly Democratic district would flip Republican. But since each new district would have only a 4 percentage point cushion, both seats would turn blue in a Democratic wave election. The redrawing of Pennsylvania\u2019s congressional districts in 2011 illustrates the Republicans\u2019 problem. Taken together, the state\u2019s Democratic candidates won about 3 percent more votes than their opponents in 2012, but they won only five of its 18 seats. In the process, however, Republicans created four districts in which Republican presidential candidates normally win by less than two percentage points and another six with margins of six points or less. In theory, each of those seats is now more vulnerable than before. As of last month, according to the Republican political consultant Adrian Gray, Mrs. Clinton led in 54 Republican-held districts nationwide while Mr. Trump led in only three Democratic districts. Although few Republican House candidates seem eager to embrace Mr. Trump publicly, most have formally endorsed him. Rescinding those endorsements would alienate Trump supporters they need. That President Obama has exhorted them to do so would only intensify the resulting backlash if they followed his advice. It is difficult to overstate the threat that Mr. Trump poses for down-ballot candidates. Across party lines, high-ranking current and former government officials view him as lacking the temperament, character, judgment and experience required of a president. Polls suggest that this assessment is also widely shared by ordinary voters. Although vocal minorities have held similar views about presidential candidates in the past, the current situation is without precedent. The ads for Democratic opponents of Republican incumbents virtually write themselves. John Plumb, who\u2019s challenging my own congressman, the Trump supporter and Tea Party Republican Tom Reed, might consider an ad like the following: \u201cIn a briefing on nuclear weapons with a foreign policy expert, Donald Trump repeatedly asked, \u2018If we have them, why can\u2019t we use them?\u2019 Tom Reed wants to entrust this man with the nuclear codes.\u201d An actual ad emphasizing the lack of daylight between her opponent\u2019s positions and those of Mr. Trump, made by LuAnn Bennett, who is challenging Barbara Comstock, a Republican in Virginia\u2019s 10th District, further illustrates Mr. Trump\u2019s potential to haunt down-ballot candidates. Since many potentially vulnerable Republican congressional seats are in safely blue states like California and New York, a serious effort to end Republican majorities would of course require expenditures that will have no impact on the Electoral College vote. In the standard way of thinking about trade-offs like these, it would be rational to tolerate a slight increase in the risk of losing the electoral vote if doing so would sufficiently increase the odds of ending congressional gridlock. But because a campaign\u2019s budget is not a fixed sum, the trade-off may be more apparent than real. As economists have long stressed, the amount that people are willing to pay for something depends on what they expect to get in return. Democratic donors understand that their biggest concerns can\u2019t be addressed until Republicans lose their congressional majorities. They also understand that if the House doesn\u2019t flip this year, there will be virtually no chance of it flipping in the 2018 midterm elections. And until Democrats win enough seats in state legislatures to undo Republican gerrymandering \u2014 which could take decades \u2014 a wave election is the only near-term hope. The candidacy of Donald Trump offers a unique opportunity. If Mrs. Clinton made the case clearly in these terms, many donors would step up. Democrats could compete for every vulnerable Republican seat without diverting a single dollar from the Electoral College battle. Some argue that money in politics doesn\u2019t matter. That\u2019s true in the sense that when both sides spend equally, their efforts tend to be mutually offsetting. But that\u2019s why the current opportunity is unique. Democratic donors, who have already been giving generously, have both the means and the inclination to pay for an advertising blitz that Republicans probably cannot match this time around. If Mrs. Clinton wins the presidency, she has pledged to appoint Supreme Court justices sympathetic to laws curtailing campaign spending. But this election is governed by current laws. A certain rough justice would be served if those laws helped dislodge the Republicans who favor them. Again, the most urgent reason for a serious effort to flip the House is that longstanding Republican hostility to climate science has blocked steps that could parry the biggest threat to our planet\u2019s survival. Estimates suggest that taxing carbon could slow greenhouse gas emissions by enough to stabilize global temperatures by the middle of this century. In a rational world, we would have long since taken that step. But Republicans have persistently refused even to discuss that possibility. REPUBLICAN opposition to greater investment in clean energy and infrastructure refurbishment is rooted largely in their hostility to higher taxes. But supporting such investments would be less difficult than most people realize. That\u2019s because of the seemingly plausible, but essentially false, belief that higher taxes would make it harder for prosperous people to buy what they want. To get a house with a commanding view or a choice slip in the marina, people must outbid others with similar tastes and incomes. Since tax increases leave all bidders with less to spend, the best home sites and marina slips would still go to the same people as before. Similar logic suggests why Mr. Trump\u2019s candidacy may also facilitate action on the vexing problems that stem from growing income inequality. Most of the income gains of the last 40 years have been concentrated among top earners, who have responded as people normally do, by spending more on everything. The average new house is almost half again as large as its counterpart from 1980, and the average wedding now costs three times as much as it did then. Yet those increases have merely shifted the frames of reference that define what\u2019s considered special. If those same dollars had been channeled into productive public investment, families all along the income scale would have benefited enormously. But that won\u2019t happen if Republicans retain their congressional majorities. David Wasserman, an analyst for The Cook Political Report, estimates that House Democrats would need to win roughly eight percentage points more votes than Republicans nationally to flip the House this year. In an increasingly polarized electorate, achieving a margin that large would be difficult, especially if a significant number of people abandon their recent tendency to cast straight party-line votes. But this is not a normal year, and Donald Trump is not a normal candidate. Many experienced political observers have said they can easily imagine Mrs. Clinton achieving a double-digit margin in November. Substantial uncertainty remains, of course, but if Mr. Trump continues to provide vivid reminders of his unfitness for the presidency, such a margin would hardly seem surprising. More important, trying to win big would be a prudent goal even if it fell short. Each additional seat Republicans lose this year is one less seat that Democrats will need to achieve future majorities. And if the race were to suddenly tighten, the Clinton campaign could quickly adjust its strategy. History suggests why certain kinds of change are less improbable than they may seem. National trends often begin many years earlier in California, where immigration-bashing Republicans made a hash of the state\u2019s budget and did much to degrade its most cherished institutions, including the best public university system in the world. The state\u2019s voters eventually got fed up. Once the tipping point was reached, the change was remarkably rapid. Before Mr. Trump secured the Republican nomination, it seemed na\u00efve to imagine that the opportunity for a similar national transition would arrive this quickly. But here we are.", "item_type": "Article"}