{"updated_date": "2017-04-19T03:00:10-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-19T03:00:10-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2016/03/20/nyregion/the-mourning-dove-a-melancholy-crooner.html", "abstract": "The mourning dove, now one of the most abundant birds in New York State, adds a sober tune to the chorus of springtime chirpers.", "section": "N.Y. / Region", "published_date": "2016-03-17T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "The Mourning Dove, a Melancholy Crooner", "material_type_facet": "News", "source": "The New York Times", "text": "The song of the mourning dove is a melancholy counterpoint to the dazzling chorus of migrant bird calls now just beginning to fill the earliest spring air. At this time of year, even before the snow completely melts, resident doves \u2014 those that chose to take their chances on a mild New York City winter \u2014 begin their amorous cooing in sobering tones. The mourning dove (Zenaida macroura) is far more common in New York State now than it was at the turn of the 20th century. Warming trends and an expanding winter range mean that mourning doves can now be observed throughout the state, from the Adirondacks to the tip of Montauk Point, year round. This is particularly true in New York City and on Long Island. Annual bird counts indicate that the mourning dove is now one of the most abundant birds in the Empire State. Mourning doves superficially resemble their relatives the rock pigeons, but they are more streamlined, with a smaller head and a longer, tapering tail, sharply bordered by black and white markings. They are an overall warm dun color with subtle, pinkish highlights, matching their small pink feet. Like their pigeon cousins, they are adept at surviving in the company of humans, thriving in cities and suburbs, and making good use of cleared landscapes for feeding, courting and breeding. Doves prefer to feed on the ground, and are often attracted to bird feeders or, even more commonly, the ground beneath the feeders, where they methodically pick up any stray seeds. Though the mourning dove may be known for its grace, a dove nest is a somewhat haphazard construction. The birds begin by assembling a loose platform of small twigs in a tree crotch or forked branch, but will even occasionally choose to nest on ledges or other flat surfaces. The twig platform is then lined with soft grasses and other plant material to protect the eggs. As if aware of the flimsiness of their own work, mourning doves often repurpose abandoned robin or mockingbird nests, topping the original nest with additional materials. Once completed to the dove couple\u2019s satisfaction, two warm white eggs are deposited in the nest, and both parents dutifully incubate them, the males by day, the females overnight. In about two weeks, the eggs hatch into fast-growing, creamy-white chicks sparsely covered in down. About two weeks after hatching the chicks fledge, leaving the nest to begin their lives as adult mourning doves. From the moment the young birds fly off, the adults set about courting again. Mourning doves mate for life, and they mate often. In New York City, a pair may produce as many as three nests a year between March and October. At this time of year, listen for cooing doves as the sun rises. Their velvety calls are a bass accompaniment to the revelry of red-winged blackbirds, Carolina wrens and cardinals as they welcome spring back to New York City.", "item_type": "Article"}