{"text": "The role of philanthropy in the current era of rising economic inequality is the focus of David Callahan\u2019s new book, \u201cThe Givers: Wealth, Power, and Philanthropy in a New Gilded Age\u201d (Knopf: 2017). On the one hand, basic government services have been squeezed as long-term obligations have exploded \u2014 pensions at the state level and various entitlement programs at the national level \u2014 and the number of citizens who rely on these programs has grown. On the other hand, an emerging class of megarich individuals have come to play an outsize role in charitable giving that has now replaced what were once roles fulfilled by government. Mr. Callahan\u2019s conclusion is that these trends jointly represent a threat to democracy and calls for a significant increase in government regulation of philanthropic activity. Mr. Callahan comes to these topics with significant experience. He is the founder and editor of the website Inside Philosophy, which tracks the world of giving and a surprising number of wealthy philanthropists have spoken to him candidly about their charitable efforts. \u201cThe Givers\u201d is organized around chapters dealing with particular types of rich people, charitable focus, giving style or charity structure, and ends with a torrent of policy proposals. The result is essentially two parallel books, starkly different in style and substance. The first is a careful, sober description of how the current generation of billionaires ultimately settled on their respective strategies for giving away much of their fortunes. The second is an angry polemic against the pervasive corruption of representative democracy wrought by economic inequality. In this story, philanthropic giving is cast as a potentially unwitting accomplice. The first of these books is genuinely interesting. \u201cThe Givers\u201d contains many detailed narratives of just how difficult it is to come up with an effective approach to giving away a lot of money and how diverse the paths taken have been. These range from tech billionaires like Sean Parker who look to spend down their wealth during their lifetime through \u201cconcentrated bets\u201d on high-impact \u201chackable problems\u201d to low-key, locally focused billionaires like Amos and Barbara Hostetter who seek to improve the quality of life in Boston in perpetuity. The Hostetters\u2019 continuing impact will not only flow from their foundation\u2019s endowment but also from their mentorship of the next generation of Brahmin billionaires. The history of the collaboration between Bill Gates and Warren E. Buffett that resulted in the Giving Pledge is widely known, but \u201cThe Givers\u201d also describes the continuing institutional infrastructure established to help the pledgers give effectively. Much less satisfying is the book\u2019s overarching arguments about the dangers of the \u201ccreeping plutocracy\u201d and the pervasive corrupting influence of inequality. In addition to not being compelling on its own, the obsessive preoccupation with the subject distracts from otherwise fascinating case studies. For instance, after a discussion of the collaborative strategies employed among tech billionaires pursuing \u201cthe \u201cphilanthropic equivalent of a \u2018unicorn,\u2019 \u201d Mr. Callahan starts an unconnected tirade about the tax avoidance strategies of the largest public technology corporations. Mr. Callahan concedes that the living wealthy donors that are his focus represent less than a quarter of all annual charitable giving and that overall giving has remained at 2 percent of gross domestic product for decades. In the absence of concrete data, the repetitive insistence that the growing philanthropic interests of the richest Americans \u201cwill dramatically expand the size and influence of a new power elite\u201d grows tiresome. Overuse of adjectives like \u201cscary\u201d and \u201cshadowy\u201d don\u2019t add much to the narrative or particularly support his case. When Mr. Callahan finally turns to his suggested regulatory reforms in the final chapter, it becomes clear that frustration with increased economic inequality more broadly is the real animating force behind his concerns. The last three pages of the book are filled with a well-worn laundry list of proposals to increase taxes, reduce military spending, limit the role of money in politics and increase the effectiveness of government. The very complexity and diversity of the stories that preceded this call to arms, however, undermines the assertion that \u201cphilanthropy\u2019s fingerprints are all over\u201d the four-decade trend toward sharply increased economic inequality. The oddest policy proposal made by Mr. Callahan relates to philanthropy specifically. Unsurprisingly, given his articulated concerns, he argues for the establishment of a United States office of charitable affairs to adopt a wide range of new regulations. Mr. Callahan, however, is not convinced that elected officials can be trusted to oversee this agency and argues for governance \u201cthat might resemble the Federal Reserve.\u201d Up until this point, \u201cThe Givers\u201d had often described unelected donors as democratically suspect usurpers of the role of government officials. If Mr. Callahan can\u2019t depend on elected officials and those they appoint to be impartial, no amount of regulation will solve his problem. \u201cThe Givers\u201d would have been better off focusing on the ways philanthropy can mitigate the impact of what it sees as an inherently corrupt political system than rather looking for a way to direct that system to improve philanthropy. Better yet, Mr. Callahan could have had an even greater influence by instead examining why so many billionaires don\u2019t give more. The recent reporting that earned David Fahrenthold of The Washington Post a Pulitzer Prize suggests that our president would have been a good place to start.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/01/business/dealbook/the-new-gilded-age-in-philanthropy.html", "published_date": "2017-04-30T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Business Day", "updated_date": "2017-05-01T11:34:08-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-01T11:34:08-04:00", "abstract": "\u201cThe Givers\u201d details how difficult it can be to give away a lot of money, but its arguments against the \u201ccreeping plutocracy\u201d are less compelling.", "title": "The New Gilded Age in Philanthropy"}