{"text": "To the Editor: Re \u201cTrump Rejects 100-Day Test, Yet Seeks an A\u201d (White House Memo, front page, April 25): In arguably the most chaotic first 100 days in American presidential history, Donald Trump has demonstrated that his may well be the most arbitrary presidency we\u2019ve ever had. Lacking a core set of political ideals, Mr. Trump has shown himself to be easily influenced by his advisers (the Stephen Bannon/Stephen Miller-inspired Muslim ban), his allies (Paul Ryan\u2019s \u201crepeal and replace\u201d health care plan) and television news (the Syrian missile attack). He has cavalierly reversed past positions and campaign promises to accommodate his message of the moment. In foreign affairs, Mr. Trump\u2019s lack of a strategic and diplomatic perspective has led to unnecessarily embarrassing moments with key American allies and created a policy vacuum that leaves the world, and the American people, questioning what role the United States intends to play on the global stage. But worse still is the secrecy, misinformation, conflicts of interest, nepotism, cronyism and vitriol that characterize the Trump White House. He has demonstrated no respect for the concept of public service or the accountability demanded of elected officials. While Americans seek leadership, vision and substance, Mr. Trump indulges his personal ambitions while flailing from issue to issue with ambiguity and incoherence. JOHN F. GEARYWESTFORD, MASS. To the Editor: When did we start benchmarking the president in the first 100 days? It started with Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1933, when 15 major bills were pushed through Congress to help lift the country out of the Depression. I just spoke to hundreds of aspiring chief nurse executives about their first 90 days, and my advice was to do nothing! I have received this advice over and over in new executive positions, and it is the wise thing to do. This gives you time to get your senior team together, to meet everyone, to assimilate the administrative staff and to assess your leadership. I have found it an excellent time to prepare for the first crisis. I hope that President Trump will truly be a different kind of president and break away from being held to this unattainable and frankly risky standard of excellence. All future presidents ought to shake it off as well. MARLENE MCALLISTERTULSA, OKLA. To the Editor: I believe there\u2019s a very simple way to evaluate President\u2019s Trump\u2019s first 100 days. Since he claims to be a good businessman, looking at him as an executive of a major company would be an apt analogy. Based on that, he would have been fired for gross incompetence. RICHARD HARRISUPPER MONTCLAIR, N.J. To the Editor: I am so impressed with how much President Trump has learned in his first three months. Now he knows that health care is complicated, and that NATO fights terrorism and is not obsolete after all. He has learned that when an American flotilla is headed for Australia, it is not threatening North Korea. He knows that China has not been manipulating its currency, and that Vladimir Putin, Stephen Bannon, Devin Nunes and Kellyanne Conway are not his true friends. He has discovered that the Republican majority has been devoid of ideas for years. And what amazes me is that he accomplished all this while spending one day of every five relaxing at Mar-a-Lago, at taxpayers\u2019 expense. He must continue to take good care of himself and his businesses. I do hope that his golf game is improving and that he continues his hard work, so that he can be a really good president. ROBERT J. BLOCHPIKESVILLE, MD. To the Editor: Why should former President Barack Obama try to avoid criticizing Donald Trump (\u201cAsk Him Anything, Unless It\u2019s About Trump,\u201d news article, April 25)? In fact, many of us expect Mr. Obama to do exactly the opposite. As a former president with inside information on a number of issues, there is no one better to offer a strong critique of the chaotic first 100 days of Mr. Trump\u2019s administration. Further, as Mr. Obama\u2019s executive actions and policies have been actively targeted for destruction by the Trump administration, all the more reason for Mr. Obama to participate directly in protecting his legacy as well as educate the public on the merits of his previous work. Anything short of a robust critique of Mr. Trump by Mr. Obama would be seen as not caring about the millions of people who have benefited from Mr. Obama\u2019s policies and executive actions. So, go on, Mr. Obama, criticize all you want anytime you want. We are behind you! MICHAEL HADJIARGYROUOLD WESTBURY, N.Y. To the Editor: I do not care about how President Trump has done in his first 100 days in office as much as I care about how the rest of us are doing. Not great, I\u2019m afraid. Millions of Americans voted for what they thought would be a change of direction in their favor. Where are the proposals to make it real? Where are the programs to foster better jobs for a middle class under siege? Why is the only clear proposal a tax cut that benefits most the wealthiest, with uncertain results and promises for the rest of us? The real Trump America is a much darker place than the America he promised. The president\u2019s executive orders prey on the most vulnerable. Millions of immigrants, almost all of whom are not any threat at all, now live in fear. The president\u2019s team has begun to tear into government departments set up to protect us from the worst of ourselves. And all the while, the investigations persist into the president\u2019s conflicts of interests and whether his campaign cooperated with Russia to defeat Hillary Clinton. The Pied Piper of Washington and Mar-a-Lago keeps tweeting his flute and marching us around in circles. BRUCE NEUMANWATER MILL, N.Y. To the Editor: At semester\u2019s end, it is not uncommon for students who are missing assignments, have cut class, etc., to ask if they can still earn an \u201cA\u201d by trying to finish everything in the last week. It rarely works out. MARYANN BRINK, BOSTON The writer is a senior lecturer in history at the University of Massachusetts at Boston. To the Editor: Dear President Trump: Congratulations on your first 100 days in office. You have achieved so many amazing things, and the list keeps getting better and better. I wanted to reflect upon all the really historic things you have accomplished on behalf of your loyal subjects, I mean, the American people. Really, really remarkable things, if I may add. Here\u2019s what you\u2019ve achieved in just 100 days! 1. Created the most corrupt administration in the history of our government. 2. Leveraging your real estate prowess, you\u2019ve built the best swamp ever, even better than Richard Nixon\u2019s. 3. Assembled the highest number of advisers and appointees who have ties to Russia. 4. Managed to alienate all of our allies. No other president has ever done that, let alone in the first 100 days. Amazing! 5. Cozied up to the most corrupt dictators and leaders. 6. Created the highest amount of profits for you and your family, despite the requirements of the emoluments clause. Who needs the Constitution anyway? But really, the icing on the cake is that you\u2019ve accomplished all of this without one peep from the Republican Party. Wow! DENISE NORA, WINNETKA, ILL. To the Editor: My 4-year-old granddaughter used an awesome phrase after having a very difficult morning while getting ready for school. Not only did it capture her situation, but I think it aptly describes our new president and his administration. After getting in her car seat she said to her mommy: \u201cSo far, so bad!\u201d LUCIE BAVA, LOS ANGELES", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/27/opinion/the-readers-turn-grading-trumps-first-100-days.html", "published_date": "2017-04-26T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Opinion", "updated_date": "2017-04-27T13:54:17-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "Letter", "created_date": "2017-04-27T13:54:17-04:00", "abstract": "Our readers offer harsh assessments. \u201cArguably the most chaotic first 100 days in American presidential history,\u201d one writes.", "title": "The Readers\u2019 Turn: Grading Trump\u2019s First 100 Days"}