{"title": "The King Who Personified Thailand", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/15/opinion/the-king-who-personified-thailand.html", "updated_date": "2017-04-24T00:00:09-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "section": "Opinion", "published_date": "2016-10-13T20:00:00-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-24T00:00:09-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "material_type_facet": "Editorial", "text": "He was a curious amalgam of modern and feudal: an American-born, Swiss-educated king who could not be criticized under Thailand\u2019s stern l\u00e8se-majest\u00e9 laws; an accomplished sailor, painter and saxophonist who once jammed with Benny Goodman, but before whom his subjects had to prostrate themselves; a constitutional monarch with limited powers who commanded a vast fortune and was accorded almost divine status; a head of state whose reign was punctuated by a progression of bad governments and coups, yet was loved by his countrymen. Perhaps it was because he was all these things that King Bhumibol Adulyadej, who died on Thursday at age 88, became the personification of Thai nationhood in his 70-year reign. And that is also why his passing is so troubling to his country and its allies. King Bhumibol was an accidental king, placed on the throne of what used to be Siam at age 18 after a tumultuous period in which his uncle abdicated and his older brother, the next king, was found dead with a bullet through his head. Yet politics, geopolitics and his remarkable personality transformed him into a powerful unifying force in a profoundly divided country, revered by the poor for whom he launched hundreds of development projects and esteemed by the royalist military and political elite. The generals needed him to give legitimacy to their coups and so built up the monarchy. And as Southeast Asia became a battleground of East and West, the United States saw in the king a critical bulwark against Communism. But it was King Bhumibol himself who consolidated his place as a Buddhist patriarch to his people by touring villages to encourage development, often with doctors who would treat people on the spot. That endowed him with political powers far beyond his constitutional role and helped him defuse political conflicts and violence. But however effective he was in elevating the monarchy, it was beyond his power to establish a stable, well-functioning democracy \u2014 or to leave behind an heir who could fill his ornate slippers. King Bhumibol\u2019s son and successor, Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn, 64, is disliked by much of the public, which considers him an eccentric playboy lacking the decorum for the throne. The last 15 years of King Bhumibol\u2019s reign saw a bitter political struggle between poor, rural supporters of Thaksin Shinawatra, a businessman and former prime minister now in self-imposed exile abroad, and the urban and military establishments. In August, voters approved a new Constitution written by the military junta in power since 2014, which reduces the power of political parties. The junta, which claims the late king\u2019s blessing, has said there will be an election next year, but it has walked away from similar promises before. Ordinary Thais often looked to the king to provide the leadership their politicians and generals could never muster. They will miss him the most.", "abstract": "King Bhumibol Adulyadej, who died on Thursday, was beloved for his leadership despite of political turmoil in his country during a 70-year reign."}