{"text": "The lone Burmese restaurant in New York City opened in March in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, bringing the rings and chain links of the Burmese alphabet to a street otherwise inscribed in English, Russian and Mandarin. Among its neighbors are a Sicilian billiard-table dealer, an Albanian butcher and a Universal Enlightenment Temple. Bensonhurst has the borough\u2019s highest concentration of foreign-born residents, which might explain why the chef Aye Myint, known as Oscar, named his restaurant Together. \u201cHe wanted it to be a gathering of different people,\u201d his elder daughter said. Burmese cooking shares ingredients with Thailand\u2019s, but it also draws from the Chinese province of Yunnan to the northeast, rejoicing in vegetables pickled to a deep, abiding sourness, and from India to the northwest, embracing seeds and pulses and favoring mild, turmeric-stained curries that radiate warmth without alarming the heart. The food makes allies of opposing flavors and textures, which retain their individual contours while contributing to a greater whole. A partial ingredient list for laphet thoke, a dish commonly categorized as a salad (such are the limitations of the English language), includes mulchy fermented tea leaves with enough caffeine to twang the nerves like a harp, set against strips of fresh, crunchy cabbage; garlic in translucent teardrops and disks of green chile, flaunting their perilous seeds; a briny spoor of dried shrimp and fish sauce; tomatoes in skinny slurs, for just a squeeze of juice, and bright lashings of lime; and pops of sesame seeds and roasted peanuts, buttery wholes and halves alongside crunchier, roughly broken shards. All this, in a few spoonfuls. Other salads are less visually kaleidoscopic but equally bracing, with one ingredient ascendant \u2014 perhaps lime, not just juice but flesh, or shredded green mango on the cusp of sweetness \u2014 but still beholden to a rabble of happily conflicting tastes. A tangle of yellow noodles and three shapes of rice noodles (skinny, broad, flat) is disarmingly fun to eat, with its snaking textures. Ngapi, fermented fish or shrimp paste, is entwined in the DNA of nearly every dish. (Before Myanmar started taking steps toward democracy, a general in the governing junta reportedly said, \u201cWe are not scared of Western sanctions; we will survive as long as we have rice, salt and ngapi.\u201d) Mr. Myint makes his own, from a powder of pulverized shrimp the size of fingernails, simmered with tomato and chile. Half its potency lies in its reek, suggesting simultaneous ripeness and rot. One soup, ohnot kaukswe, arrives looking like boiling gold, thickened by coconut milk and soybean powder, with half a boiled egg breaking the surface and a ravel of yellow noodles below. It is soul-deep. Mohinga is redder, glowering under a wreckage of broken chickpea fritters, with slinky coils of rice vermicelli in a fish stock fortified by fish sauce and crushed lemongrass stalks. When Mr. Myint can get it, he adds the pith of the banana stem, made up of leaves tightly rolled together; the tenderest, at the core, add crunch and a faint, grassy bitterness. When Mr. Myint emigrated to the United States 17 years ago, he found work alongside other Burmese immigrants as a sushi chef at supermarkets around the country. For a while, he ran a sushi bar in Catskill, N.Y., occasionally sneaking Burmese curries onto the lunch buffet. At Together, which he opened after a brief run selling Burmese food in a bodega on Avenue U, he is still gauging the neighborhood\u2019s appetite. So three-quarters of the menu is sushi, including two pages of rolls listed from Alaska to Zodiac, which on my visits I never saw anyone order. The restaurant is not quite cozy, with neon-lit photographs of dishes posted on high, as if it were a takeout joint. But the burgundy floor and saffron walls suggest the serenity of a monk\u2019s robes. Small traditional embroidered tapestries face a TV playing videos from Burmese MTV. One tabletop is a wooden boat, a souvenir from parties at Mr. Myint\u2019s upstate restaurant. Elsewhere in town, you may find a few Burmese dishes at pop-ups and outdoor food markets. But Together is the only place I have seen shwe yin aye: chilled coconut milk poured over tapioca pearls, knobs of sticky rice and coconut jelly. On top, slabs of white bread soak up the coconut milk and slowly turn into cake. For a moment, I felt I could eat it every day until the end of time.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/27/dining/together-restaurant-review-burmese-food.html", "published_date": "2017-04-26T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Food", "updated_date": "2017-04-27T15:20:37-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "Review", "created_date": "2017-04-27T15:20:37-04:00", "abstract": "The city\u2019s lone Burmese restaurant brings the rings and chain links of the Burmese alphabet to a Brooklyn street otherwise inscribed in English, Russian and Mandarin.", "title": "Bracing Burmese Food, Full of Contradictions, at Together"}