{"text": "When the Trump administration unveiled its outline of a tax plan on Wednesday, officials trumpeted a bold promise to shave the corporate tax rate to a flat 15 percent and sharply reduce taxes for ordinary Americans. But one crucial issue they left unaddressed: how the administration plans to deal with the so-called carried interest loophole, a tax treatment enjoyed by some of the richest people on Wall Street. During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump pledged to close the loophole and make its beneficiaries, private equity and hedge fund executives among them, pay their fare share of taxes. He once proclaimed that \u201chedge fund guys are getting away with murder.\u201d So far, it is unclear just how the skeletal proposal announced by the Trump administration on Wednesday will address this issue. But already, there is reason to believe that the president will not soon fulfill that campaign pledge. Carried interest, which is essentially the profits reaped by hedge fund managers and private equity executives, is currently taxed at a long-term capital gains rate that is about half the roughly 40 percent ordinary income rate for the highest earners. Critics argue that these executives should pay the full rate, while industry groups say they are entitled to the lower rate because they are taking entrepreneurial risks. The Trump administration proposal, which was thin in details, does not address the issue of how carried interest should be taxed. Nor has the administration said what, if any, impact its proposal would have on carried interest. But in interviews, several tax experts and Wall Street lawyers said that by not mentioning the matter at all, the administration seemed to be signaling that the tax proposal would effectively eliminate the unique taxation of carried interest. That does not mean carried interest would be taxed at a higher rate than it is today. Instead, experts say, the tax rate for carried interest may well go down. That reading is based on the proposal subjecting pass-through entities \u2014 which include partnerships like private equity firms and hedge funds \u2014 to a 15 percent tax rate, which is lower than the rate on capital gains and much lower than the top rate on ordinary income. In other words, it appears that if the Trump plan is enacted, private equity executives would not just avoid higher taxation; their taxes would actually decline. If that turned out to be the case, private equity and hedge fund managers will have dodged a bullet, having long feared that Mr. Trump might make good on his populist rhetoric and seek to have carried interest taxed as ordinary income \u2014 rather than as capital gains. Robert Willens, a tax and accounting expert in New York, said the issue of the loophole could become \u201cmoot\u201d under the Trump administration\u2019s proposal. \u201cCarried interest would disappear, not on its own, but because of the reduction,\u201d Mr. Willens said. The response from the private equity industry was muted on Wednesday, in part because the details were unclear. The industry\u2019s trade group, the American Investment Council, declined to comment. The current proposal, which is merely a template for lawmakers and may not resemble a final tax overhaul plan, is not a sure win for the industry. It is still possible that when lawmakers get their hands on the plan, they will push to increase the taxation of carried interest. The one-page presentation handed out by the White House to describe the tax proposal simply says there would be a \u201c15 percent business tax rate,\u201d down from 35 percent. The presentation also refers to a proposal to \u201celiminate tax breaks for special interests\u201d but does not include specifics. Mr. Trump\u2019s close ties to hedge fund managers and private equity executives make it easy for his critics to assume that the plan would provide a tax benefit to the ultrawealthy. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is a former hedge fund manager. Two of Mr. Trump\u2019s advisers are Stephen Schwarzman, the head of Blackstone, the giant private equity firm, and Carl Icahn, the billionaire investor and longtime hedge fund manager. John Paulson, another hedge fund manager, whom Mr. Trump once invested with, was an economic adviser during the presidential campaign. Hedge fund managers and private equity executives together contributed more than $5 million to Mr. Trump\u2019s inaugural committee. And Wilbur Ross, Mr. Trump\u2019s commerce secretary, is a billionaire former private equity executive. Before he was selected for his role, Mr. Ross, an early supporter of Mr. Trump\u2019s, said that a Trump tax plan would crack down on the carried interest loophole. \u201cMy carried interest, and everyone else\u2019s, will not be eligible\u201d for a lower tax rate, he said in October. But based on the few details released by the administration on Wednesday, the president may have experienced a change of heart.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/27/business/dealbook/trump-tax-plan-silent-on-carried-interest-a-boon-for-the-very-rich.html", "published_date": "2017-04-26T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Business Day", "updated_date": "2017-04-27T05:13:58-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-27T05:13:58-04:00", "abstract": "Hedge fund managers and private equity executives could benefit if a loophole Donald Trump promised to close is replaced by a lower corporate tax rate.", "title": "Trump Tax Plan Silent on Carried Interest, a Boon for the Very Rich"}