{"text": "WASHINGTON \u2014 Just days after the November election, top aides to Donald J. Trump huddled with congressional staff members in Speaker Paul D. Ryan\u2019s suite of offices at the Capitol. The objective: not to get things done, but to undo them \u2014 quickly. For about three months after Inauguration Day, Mr. Trump would have the power to wipe away some of his predecessor\u2019s most significant regulations with simple-majority votes from his allies in Congress. But the clock was ticking. An obscure law known as the Congressional Review Act gives lawmakers 60 legislative days to overturn major new regulations issued by federal agencies. After that window closes, sometime in early May, the process gets much more difficult: Executive orders by the president can take years to unwind regulations \u2014 well beyond the important 100-day yardstick for new administrations. So in weekly meetings leading up to Jan. 20, the Trump aides and lawmakers worked from a shared Excel spreadsheet to develop a list of possible targets: rules enacted late in Barack Obama\u2019s presidency that they viewed as a vast regulatory overreach that was stifling economic growth. The result was a historic reversal of government rules in record time. Mr. Trump has used the review act as a regulatory wrecking ball, signing 13 bills that erased rules on the environment, labor, financial protections, internet privacy, abortion, education and gun rights. In the law\u2019s 21-year history, it had been used successfully only once before, when President George W. Bush reversed a Clinton-era ergonomics rule. The effort has surpassed its architects\u2019 most ambitious hopes. Andrew Bremberg, the president\u2019s domestic policy chief, said he had thought Congress might be able to use the act to pass five or six bills reversing Mr. Obama\u2019s regulations. During the transition effort, no one contemplated more than a dozen, Mr. Bremberg said. \u201cIt is a strong and very potent and powerful tool,\u201d he said. But critics say Mr. Trump\u2019s aggressive use of the Congressional Review Act amounts to a blunt and thoughtless assault on rules that would have increased people\u2019s safety, secured their personal information, protected federal lands and improved education. The first Obama rule that Mr. Trump and Congress reversed would have required coal companies to make sure that waste from mountaintop mining was not polluting local waterways. Now, steps to prevent illness from contaminated drinking water will not be taken. Another rule would have required the Social Security Administration to provide information about severely mentally incapacitated people to law enforcement agencies that conduct background checks for gun purchases. Now, these individuals \u2014 an estimated 75,000 a year \u2014 will not need Justice Department waivers to buy guns. One eliminated regulation would have prohibited internet providers from collecting, sharing or selling consumers\u2019 information without their permission. One would have required some businesses to keep records of work-related injuries and illnesses for five years instead of six months. And another would have prevented states from denying funding for women\u2019s health services to facilities that also provided abortions. Republicans viewed those rules and the other eliminated regulations as unnecessary burdens enacted by a president who had resorted to executive action because he could not get his agenda through Congress. While initially skeptical of using administrative power to govern, Mr. Obama increasingly embraced the use of regulation, reshaping government more by writing new rules than by passing new legislation. \u201cThe biggest frustration in the last eight years was not knowing where the next regulation was coming from, the next rule, and that uncertainty stifled investment,\u201d said Marc Short, Mr. Trump\u2019s legislative affairs director, who participated in planning for the regulatory assault. Mr. Trump\u2019s efforts to unwind Mr. Obama\u2019s regulations go beyond the use of the Congressional Review Act. He has issued executive orders, including one instructing the Environmental Protection Agency to begin the process of rolling back far-reaching rules that would shut down many of the country\u2019s coal-fired power plants. But reversing regulation through executive authority requires long periods of study, notice to the public, and hearings. The final outcome is often challenged in court, adding to the delay. Under the Congressional Review Act, the process is cleaner and simpler. It requires only an up-or-down vote, and the outcome cannot be challenged legally. The use of that tool to attack Obama-era regulations was coordinated by a small group, including Mr. Short; Mr. Bremberg; Eric Ueland, a veteran Republican who works for the Senate Budget Committee; Rick Dearborn, the director of the transition effort and now a deputy chief of staff at the White House; and House and Senate aides. The group\u2019s members settled on a list of rules they thought could be eradicated. \u201cWe knew we had a short window of time in order to do them,\u201d said Don Stewart, a spokesman for Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader. \u201cThat was an important part of the coordination effort.\u201d Many Obama-era rules may survive Mr. Trump\u2019s efforts to unwind them. Republicans have yet to repeal the Affordable Care Act, for which many of the most significant rules were written. Still, Mr. Trump\u2019s critics say he has set a dangerous precedent with what they call his indiscriminate use of the Congressional Review Act. The critics are especially concerned about a key provision in the act that seeks to prevent all future presidents from replacing the eliminated regulations with anything similar. That part of the act has never been tested in court, but experts said it would chill efforts to draft new regulations even after Mr. Trump leaves office. \u201cThe Congressional Review Act used in this way is kind of like a nuke,\u201d said Robert Hahn, a professor of economics at Oxford and an expert on American regulations. \u201cWe had a Democratic president who was reflecting his policy preferences toward regulation. Trump has a tool now to undo those political preferences, and he\u2019s using it.\u201d Public Citizen, a liberal watchdog group, said in a statement that Mr. Trump and congressional Republicans \u201chave been using the C.R.A. to reward the corporate and ideological special interests that funded their campaigns. It\u2019s an escalation of the corrupt insider-dealing that Trump campaigned against.\u201d But what Democrats viewed as important new protections, Republicans saw as unneeded encumbrances on insurance companies, banks and other businesses. \u201cIt\u2019s not as if there aren\u2019t an enormous number of regulations still on the books,\u201d Mr. Short, the president\u2019s legislative affairs director, said. \u201cI don\u2019t think that we feel like there is some sort of threat by passing this legislation.\u201d He added, \u201cI think it would be unfair to paint it as if you are moving into an anarchical society.\u201d", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/01/us/politics/trump-overturning-regulations.html", "published_date": "2017-04-30T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "U.S.", "updated_date": "2017-05-01T05:00:30-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-01T05:00:30-04:00", "abstract": "The president, using an obscure law, has signed 13 bills that erased Obama-era rules in areas like the environment, financial protections, internet privacy and gun rights.", "title": "Trump Discards Obama Legacy, One Rule at a Time"}