{"text": "WASHINGTON \u2014 President Trump is scheduled on Friday to sign an executive order aimed at rolling back the Obama administration\u2019s attempts to ban oil drilling off the southeastern Atlantic and Alaskan coasts, according to the interior secretary. It would also erase or narrow the boundaries of some federally-protected marine sanctuaries, opening them up to commercial fishing and oil drilling. Additionally, the order would direct the Interior Department to \u201creconsider\u201d several recent regulations on offshore drilling to ease more oil exploration, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke told reporters on Thursday. Neither he nor White House officials specified which drilling regulations would be under review. But in the final years of the Obama administration, the Interior Department put forth several new rules aimed at improving the safety of specific pieces of offshore drilling equipment that had failed during the 2010 oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, and were found to have been responsible for the deadly oil rig explosion that caused that spill. The order directs Mr. Zinke to review an Obama administration plan that delineated where offshore drilling could and could not take place between 2017 to 2022. The plan put the entire southeast Atlantic coast and large portions of the Arctic Ocean off limits to drilling. On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump repeatedly vowed to open up vast swaths of American lands and waters to oil and gas drilling, which he has touted as a major job creator. Mr. Zinke said that the review process did not guarantee that all those areas would be opened up to drilling, but noted that they would come under review. \u201cThere\u2019s no set goal. But if there\u2019s areas that are acceptable, that have resources, and local communities are for it and states are for it we could include it in next five-year plan,\u201d Mr. Zinke said in a conference call with reporters. The order also appears designed to roll back a permanent ban placed by President Barack Obama on offshore drilling off some portions of the Atlantic and Alaskan coasts, but that move is expected to be met with immediate legal challenges. Friday\u2019s order will also direct Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary \u2014 who has jurisdiction over marine sanctuaries \u2014 to conduct a review of all such sanctuaries created over the past 10 years, and not to create any new sanctuaries during that review period. The most likely targets of that review will be major protected marine parks created or enlarged by Mr. Obama. Last year, Mr. Obama created the largest marine sanctuary on the planet, enlarging the boundaries of the Papahanaumokuakea park near Hawaii. Also last year, the Obama administration unveiled a set of regulations on offshore oil and gas drilling equipment, intended to tighten the safety requirements on underwater drilling equipment and well-control operations. In particular, the new rules tighten controls on blowout preventers, the industry-standard devices that are the last line of protection to stop explosions in undersea oil and gas wells. The 2010 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon rig was caused in part by the buckling of a section of drill pipe, prompting the malfunction of a supposedly fail-safe blowout preventer on a BP well. It appears that those rules may be targeted in Mr. Trump\u2019s new order. But when questioned on which specific equipment regulations would be reviewed, Mr. Zinke simply replied that the review would apply \u201dfrom bow to stern.\u201d", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/27/us/politics/trump-offshore-drilling.html", "published_date": "2017-04-26T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "U.S.", "updated_date": "2017-04-27T21:00:08-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-27T21:00:08-04:00", "abstract": "President Trump aims to roll back the Obama administration\u2019s attempts to ban oil drilling off the southeastern Atlantic and Alaskan coasts.", "title": "Trump Is Expected to Sign Order Relaxing Limits on Offshore Drilling"}