{"text": "\u201cI\u2019m looking at that right now.\u201d President Trump\u2019s words on Monday about creating a modern-day Glass-Steagall Act rippled across the finance industry. The declaration shouldn\u2019t have been a surprise. Gary D. Cohn, the president\u2019s chief economic adviser, has been promoting the idea of bringing back the legislation, which would separate investment and consumer banks. But Mr. Trump\u2019s comments, in a Bloomberg interview, came just as Treasure Secretary Steven Mnuchin had finished speaking at the Milken Global Conference. (And Mr. Mnuchin did not mention anything about Glass-Steagall.) It would be surprising if Mr. Trump followed through. The president has maintained that he wants to pare the Dodd-Frank Act, which imposes stricter regulation on banks, but it would be a much bigger move to bring back Glass-Steagall. It could be that the two-tiered system of regulations that Mr. Trump and his team have discussed with community banks is a new interpretation of Glass-Steagall. But there is some question about the benefits of reviving the legislation, and it\u2019s not certain that it would encourage lending, an issue about which Mr. Trump has complained. \u201cIf Glass-Steagall had been in effect, we couldn\u2019t have had some of the failing firms taken over,\u201d Ben S. Bernanke, a former Federal Reserve chairman, said of the financial crisis of 2008. Of course, Andrew Ross Sorkin notes, on the issue of Glass-Steagall, as on many others, Mr. Trump\u2019s view can change in an instant. A wave of consolidation has rolled across the media industry in recent years. And now that the Federal Communications Commission has eased regulations on ownership, local television is being lapped up, too. Broadcast companies are buying into the mantra that bigger is better, especially if it increases their power over cable companies, which pay broadcasters to retransmit their stations. It also helps the broadcast companies build their defenses against online rivals, like Netflix and Hulu, and against content providers, like CBS and the Walt Disney Company, which are pushing for bigger fees from broadcasters. Those factors may be what prompted a change of heart from James Murdoch, chief executive at 21st Century Fox. Just a few months ago, he denied having any interest in buying more television stations in the United States. Fox is now said to be teaming up with the private equity firm Blackstone to work on a deal for Tribune Media. With Blackstone providing the cash, Fox might be able to expand without straining its balance sheet any further, Jennifer Saba writes in Breakingviews. But the grand acquisition plan comes as Fox\u2019s attempt to buy the European satellite group Sky awaits a ruling from British regulators (pending a \u201cfit and proper\u201d test) and risks a throwback to another era, when Rupert Murdoch, now the Fox chairman, was known for his capricious and overpriced deals, Ms. Saba writes. At the same time, Fox News is still dealing with the repercussions of a sexual harassment scandal. The cable news channel is trying to do some housecleaning and has fired Bill Shine, a co-president at the network and a close ally of Roger E. Ailes, the former chairman who was removed after harassment allegations. Questions about how far the company will go to clear up its corporate culture remain \u2014 Mr. Shine has been replaced by Suzanne Scott, a veteran executive who also has deep ties to Mr. Ailes. Fox News has also been accused of discrimination in a lawsuit by Diana Falzone, a reporter for the network, who said she had been barred from further appearances after she wrote an op-ed column disclosing that she had a chronic condition, endometriosis, and was likely to be infertile. Could the home-sharing company be preparing a smoother ride to an initial public offering? Airbnb settled a lawsuit against the city of San Francisco on Monday, agreeing to be more transparent about hosts and to help enforce registration laws. The legal action could have hampered its expansion efforts. The company has now cleared up outstanding litigation in two of its biggest United States markets: It dropped a suit about a New York law that fines people who illegally list their homes on short-term rental platforms. Airbnb still faces legal disputes in a handful of markets, but clearing up some of these regulatory issues should create a more stable environment for the company.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/02/business/dealbook/trump-banks-fox-tribune.html", "published_date": "2017-05-01T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Business Day", "updated_date": "2017-05-02T05:50:07-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-02T05:50:07-04:00", "abstract": "President Trump\u2019s declaration that he was \u201clooking at\u201d breaking up big lenders has rippled across the finance industry. But there are questions about the benefits of such a move.", "title": "Morning Agenda: A Nervous Time for Banks"}