{"text": "It was less of a plan and more of an opening gambit. President Trump unveiled his tax package on Wednesday, a single-page wish list with no details on the cost of each provision, phase-in periods or potential impacts. Here\u2019s what it included: \u2022 A cut to the rate paid by businesses, large and small, to 15 percent. \u2022 A reduction in the number of individual tax brackets. \u2022 The elimination of the estate tax and alternative minimum tax (a system that primarily hits wealthier people by limiting the deductions and other benefits available to them). \u2022 Eliminating tax on corporations\u2019 foreign profits, and a special, one-time rate to encourage companies to bring home cash parked overseas. \u2022 A doubling of the standard deduction for individuals, which would essentially eliminate taxes on about $24,000 of a couple\u2019s earnings. \u2022 Lower capital gains taxes, down to 20 percent, from 23.8 percent. \u2022 A repeal of inheritance tax. The plan leaves in place tax breaks for mortgage interest, charitable contributions and retirement savings. So who are the winners here? Businesses with high tax rates, high-income earners, multimillionaires who want to pass money on to their heirs tax free, retailers worried about a \u201cborder adjustment tax,\u201d people with creative accountants, and those who still fill out their tax returns by hand, Neil Irwin writes. Oh, and the president. The people losing out? Upper-middle-income people in blue states, deficit hawks, and \u2014 because Democrats are unlikely to support it \u2014 people who want Congress to actually pass something. There were few further details, such as how the government might change its approach to taxing overseas profit \u2014 a system that has discouraged American companies from repatriating their earnings. The tax blueprint leaves Republicans facing the prospect of endorsing a plan that many economists and budget analysts say will increase the deficit. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Gary D. Cohn, the director of the National Economic Council, told reporters that the proposal would spur growth and pay for itself. But the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, a nonpartisan group that advocates fiscal restraint, estimates that the economy would need to grow at more than twice the speed projected over the next decade to make the plan self-financing. The group estimates that the proposals could increase the deficit by $3 trillion to $7 trillion over the next 10 years. Separately on Wednesday, Mr. Trump told President Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto of Mexico and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada that he would not move to terminate the North American Free Trade Agreement. But Mr. Trump did say that he would start renegotiating the treaty. Didi Chuxing, the ride-hailing company that got the better of Uber in the Chinese market, is near an agreement to raise at least $5 billion, Bloomberg and Reuters reported, citing people familiar with the matter. The fund-raising would lift Didi\u2019s valuation to $50 billion, from $34 billion, and would make it the most valuable start-up in the world, after Uber. The investors include SoftBank, Silver Lake Kraftwerk, China Merchants Bank and Bank of Communications, according to Bloomberg, Reuters and The Financial Times. Didi Chuxing, whose previous investors include Apple and Alibaba, will use the funds to expand overseas and to work on self-driving cars and artificial intelligence. Its revenues have been crimped recently by stricter regulations on its drivers. What would you pay for a baseball team that hasn\u2019t made the playoffs in 14 years and doesn\u2019t play in one of the United States\u2019 bigger media markets? How about $1.3 billion? That\u2019s how much Derek Jeter, former New York Yankees shortstop, and Jeb Bush, former Florida governor and presidential candidate, are apparently prepared to pay for the Miami Marlins. They are not alone \u2014 Tagg Romney, the son of Mitt Romney (former governor of Massachusetts and another onetime presidential candidate), is also leading a bid for the club, according to The Financial Times. A deal with Mr. Jeter and Mr. Bush seems to be leading the race, but their bid hinges on whether financing can be arranged, so the offer from the group led by Mr. Romney is still in the running, people briefed on the discussions told The Financial Times. Mr. Bush is working on raising the money, The Miami Herald reported. The price tag may seem high to some, but as previous sales have shown, professional sports teams tend to grow in value, and grow fast, Daniel Roberts writes for Yahoo Finance. Jeffrey Loria, the New York art dealer who has owned the Marlins since 2002, bought the team for $158 million. \u2022 The European Central Bank will hold a monetary policy meeting on Thursday and the news conference that follows will be closely observed for any indication of when, and how quickly, the bank might withdraw its stimulus to the eurozone economy. Here is a primer on what to listen for when the bank\u2019s president, Mario Draghi, speaks.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/27/business/dealbook/trump-taxes-didi-chuxing.html", "published_date": "2017-04-26T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Business Day", "updated_date": "2017-04-27T06:15:49-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-27T06:15:49-04:00", "abstract": "President Trump\u2019s plans were distilled in a single-page statement that had no details on the cost of each provision, phase-in periods or potential impacts.", "title": "Morning Agenda: The Tax Wish List"}