{"text": "Donald J. Trump repeatedly voiced concerns for ordinary working men and women during his election campaign. But the president\u2019s tax proposal will lead to a multitrillion-dollar shift from federal coffers to America\u2019s richest families and their heirs, economists and analysts say. The estate tax, for example, would affect about 5,300 fortunes a year, and cost an estimated $174.2 billion over a decade, according to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center. Wealthier Americans would also benefit from reductions to the rates on capital gains, noncorporate business taxes and taxes on the highest earners. \u201cThese are all afflictions of the affluent,\u201d said Edward D. Kleinbard, a law professor at the University of Southern California and former chief of staff of Congress\u2019s Joint Committee on Taxation, which estimates the revenue effects of tax proposals. The repeal of the alternative minimum tax and the erasing of the Affordable Care Act\u2019s 3.8 percent surtax on the investment income of high earners would also benefit the wealthy. The administration has been notably silent about the so-called carried interest loophole, which refers to a tax treatment on the profits reaped by hedge fund managers and private equity executives that allows them to pay about half the roughly 40 percent ordinary income rate for the highest earners. But the idea of allowing the income of owner-operated companies, like hedge funds and large partnerships, to be taxed at a 15 percent rate rather than at the individual income tax rate would allow doctors, lawyers and others who are part of such firms to structure their compensation as business rather than personal income and effectively enjoy a substantial tax cut. The one perk the wealthy may lose is the federal deduction for state and local taxes, which can save thousands of dollars in double taxation. Mr. Trump and House Republicans would have to overcome powerful Republican and Democratic opponents in wealthy, populous states like California, New Jersey, New York and Texas to get it through, however. Mr. Trump\u2019s economic team argues that the tax reductions would ultimately help all Americans, including the poorest, by spurring growth. There is also still the issue of how the cuts will be paid for. Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, has suggested that economic growth will mean the plan pays for itself. But economists estimate that it will add trillions to the national debt over the next decade. \u201cWe\u2019ve only done the rough numbers, but this looks like a tax cut of a magnitude of about $5 trillion,\u201d said Maya MacGuineas, president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, a bipartisan group that advocates fiscal responsibility. \u201cThat is simply unimaginable given our fiscal situation and the size of the deficit, which is already the worst since World War II.\u201d ValueAct Capital Management has amassed a stake in K.K.R., putting the firm under investor scrutiny, a role that K.K.R. usually plays itself. The stake, worth about $750 million, would make ValueAct the second-largest outside shareholder, according to Bloomberg. The investment was revealed after K.K.R. beat expectations with its latest quarterly earnings, Reuters reported. Could this have an impact on the private equity firm possibly converting from a partnership to a corporation? William J. Janetschek, K.K.R.\u2019s chief financial officer, said on Thursday that the firm was waiting for more information about potential tax changes, but that management was keeping an open mind regarding its corporate structure. Third Point, the activist hedge fund, has urged Honeywell International, the technology and manufacturing company, to spin off its aerospace unit. Third Point argues that the move would result in a \u201csustained increase in shareholder value\u201d of more than $20 billion. Honeywell said it was open to shareholder ideas and would review the suggestion, The Wall Street Journal reported. The conglomerate makes parts for Airbus and Boeing, as well as jets and engines, but it has been lagging behind its peers. Honeywell\u2019s chief executive, Darius Adamczyk, took over from the longtime chief, David Cote, only a few weeks ago. Since taking the reins, Mr. Adamczyk has said that Honeywell has an appetite for acquisitions.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/28/business/dealbook/trump-tax-kkr-valueact.html", "published_date": "2017-04-27T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Business Day", "updated_date": "2017-04-28T06:05:43-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-28T06:05:43-04:00", "abstract": "Donald J. Trump championed the cause of blue-collar voters on the campaign trail, but, now he is president, his tax plan would shift trillions to America\u2019s richest.", "title": "Morning Agenda: \u2018Afflictions of the Affluent\u2019"}