{"text": "Wherever one may land on the applause-o-meter wired to President Trump\u2019s latest outline for a tax makeover, it aims to fix an aspect of the code that pretty much everyone agrees is broken: the way the global profits of American corporations are taxed. The current system \u2014 in which profits earned abroad are not taxed until they are brought home \u2014 creates perverse incentives, encouraging American companies to park their money in lower-tax havens outside the United States. That stash now amounts to roughly $2.6 trillion. Repairing that system will require policy makers to confront two vexing problems. The first is how to get American companies to reel in the enormous sum and pay at least some of the tax that is due. The second is to overhaul how foreign earnings are taxed in the future so that multinationals change their ways. The broad plan unveiled on Wednesday by Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, shows that the administration is eager to tackle both issues, but the plan does not provide enough detail to judge whether its approach will actually work. Republicans and Democrats have railed against the accounting acrobatics that American multinationals exploit to avoid paying taxes on foreign earnings. They buy or merge with foreign companies to establish headquarters outside the United States \u2014 a practice known as inversion \u2014 or relocate their patents and copyrights to places with low tax rates, like Bermuda or the Cayman Islands. The arrangement not only deprives the United States of revenue but also increases the tax burden on American businesses that cannot or will not move their profits overseas. The current system has perpetuated a lot of waste and nonsense, said Alan D. Viard, a tax expert at the conservative American Enterprise Institute and a former senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. The nominal corporate rate is 35 percent, roughly 10 points above the average rate in most developed European nations. That differential encourages tax avoidance, Mr. Viard said. Apple, for example, has kept earnings abroad and borrowed money from its own foreign subsidiaries to pay dividends and make new investments. Because the interest paid on loans is also deductible, Apple ends up reaping a second tax benefit. \u201cThese bizarre short-term loans are just silliness,\u201d Mr. Viard said. \u201cWhatever the rate is, it should be collected when the money is earned,\u201d regardless of whether it is repatriated, he said, adding, \u201cCompanies should be free to keep the money where they want and use it however they want.\u201d In the past, policy makers tried to persuade companies to bring home profits by dangling a carrot: a voluntary, one-time tax holiday for companies that brought overseas profits back to invest in the United States. Yet the promised investment boom from a 2005 initiative never materialized, and the tax holiday turned into more of a permanent vacation. Companies did ship some money home \u2014 about $299 billion \u2014 but nearly all of it was used to increase shareholder dividends or buy back stock. \u201cThere\u2019s a lot of evidence that the holiday created no jobs and did not lead to any additional investments,\u201d said Kimberly Clausing, an economist at Reed College. A one-time mandatory tax is better, Ms. Clausing said, but she argues that one imposing an 8.75 percent rate, like the provision in the House Republicans\u2019 tax blueprint, or the 10 percent rate that Mr. Trump mentioned during his campaign is still too low. (The plan announced Wednesday did not specify a rate.) \u201cIt is just handing money to some of the people who have done really well in the global economy over the last three decades,\u201d she said. \u201cThis isn\u2019t going to create a single job or start a single factory.\u201d Mr. Viard, of the American Enterprise Institute, agrees. \u201cThere is a strong case for a relatively high tax\u201d that is compulsory, he said. Even if a new system steeply cuts multinationals\u2019 taxes in the future, in his view, they should not be given a free pass on profits already earned. \u201cWe should not give people unexpected windfalls,\u201d he said. In his view, a mandatory 20 percent rate would be appropriate, although unlikely. In 2015, for example, President Barack Obama was unable to stir up enough support to pass an immediate 19 percent tax on American companies\u2019 global profits. As for overhauling the system, President Trump moved closer to the House Republicans. The administration plan endorses a shift away from a worldwide system (in which corporate profits are taxed no matter where around the globe they are earned) to a territorial one (that seeks to tax only profits earned within the United States). Over the years, more and more countries have switched to a territorial system. Pushing the United States in the same direction, several economists argue, would slow the diversion of investments to other jurisdictions and promote growth in the United States. But both systems have their pitfalls. As is currently the case, the worldwide system encourages American companies to engage in all sorts of tax-avoidance methods to keep from booking their profits at home. Yet the danger of a territorial system is that without adequate safeguards, it would simply lead to a different set of schemes to shift profits from the United States to foreign subsidiaries, which would, in turn, eat away at the tax base. Michael J. Graetz, a tax law professor at Columbia University, is not very worried about shifting shenanigans, given that the president is pushing to drop the corporate tax rate to 15 percent. (The House Republican plan would reduce the rate to 20 percent, which would raise more revenue and produce a smaller budget deficit than Mr. Trump\u2019s proposal.) \u201cOnce you get the rate down to that low, then the incentives to shift profits offshore decreases,\u201d since the difference between the American rate and other countries\u2019 is so much smaller, Mr. Graetz said. \u201cSafeguards are then less important.\u201d Not everyone is as optimistic. Shutting those loopholes is crucial to the success of any plan, Ms. Clausing of Reed College said, whether the rate ends up at 15 percent or 20 percent. \u201cThe tough and the toothless versions of a territorial tax are very different beasts,\u201d she said. Japan and France, for example, designate countries with extremely low tax rates as havens and tax corporate profits sheltered there, she said. A similarly designed approach could work in the United States, she added. Protecting against base erosion is essential, said Rohit Kumar, a former deputy chief of staff for the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, and now a co-leader of PwC\u2019s Washington National Tax Services. The problem is figuring out how to do it. \u201cThere is no anti-base erosion rule that everybody likes,\u201d Mr. Kumar said. \u201cThe one that will prevail will be the one that everybody hates the least.\u201d While many Republicans, business leaders and Wall Street analysts would be happy to see tax rates pushed so low, many realize there is a still a long and winding road before a bill is passed. \u201cThe administration\u2019s tax-cut proposals are wildly ambitious and will meet very stiff resistance,\u201d Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, wrote in a commentary. \u201cSome tax cuts are likely this year, but not on the scale set out.\u201d", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/26/business/economy/trump-tax-plan-repatriation.html", "published_date": "2017-04-25T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Business Day", "updated_date": "2017-04-26T20:50:11-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-26T20:20:40-04:00", "abstract": "There is wide accord that the current system encourages companies to keep money abroad. The question is how to tax funds brought home, now and in the future.", "title": "Curb the Use of Overseas Tax Havens? Yes! But How?"}