{"text": "WASHINGTON \u2014 It was only a few hours after his secretary of state cracked open the door on Thursday to negotiating with the North Koreans that President Trump stepped in with exactly the kind of martial-sounding threats against the country that the White House, until now, had carefully avoided. \u201cThere is a chance we could end up having a major, major conflict with North Korea,\u201d he said to Reuters during a round of his 100-days-in-office commemorations. \u201cAbsolutely.\u201d Viewed in the most charitable light, Mr. Trump was, in his own nondiplomatic way, building pressure to force the North into a freeze of its nuclear and missile tests, the first step toward resuming the kind of negotiations that Rex W. Tillerson had spoken of earlier in the day. Or, perhaps, he was engaging in a bit of the \u201cmadman theory\u201d that he and many of his aides reportedly admire about Richard M. Nixon, who tried to convince Ho Chi Minh, the wily North Vietnamese leader, that he might be crazy enough to drop \u201cthe Bomb\u201d if they couldn\u2019t find a way to end the Vietnam War. But the most likely explanation is that Mr. Trump, who until now has largely avoided taking the bait that the North Korean propaganda machine churns out with its own warnings of imminent war, simply reverted to an old habit: sounding as tough as the other guy. The problem is that it clashes with the message his administration has been sending out for in recent days that no pre-emptive strikes are planned, that there is plenty of time and space for diplomacy. Mr. Trump\u2019s aides talk of an \u201cintegrated strategy\u201d of escalating military and economic pressure to force diplomatic engagement. The objective, Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr., who heads United States Pacific Command, told Congress earlier this week is to \u201cbring Kim Jong-un to his senses, not to his knees,\u201d a reference to the insecure if absolute leader of North Korea. That also seemed to be Mr. Tillerson\u2019s message. In an interview with NPR, he tried to sound reassuring, he said: \u201cWe do not seek a collapse of the regime. We do not seek an accelerated reunification of the peninsula. We seek a denuclearized Korean Peninsula.\u201d He even held out at least the possibility of direct talks. Mr. Trump missed an opportunity to reinforce that effort to reassure the North Koreans that the United States is not looking to topple their leader. Instead, his message could be taken as the opposite. Mr. Trump\u2019s negotiating strategy has often involved the taking of an extreme position, hoping that the other actor in a test of wills will be thrown off enough to move in his direction. That\u2019s one thing when it means threatening to pull out of Nafta, the gambit Mr. Trump floated, then retreated from, earlier in the week. But it can be a far riskier bet when exchanging signals with Mr. Kim, who has survived so far \u2013 like his father and grandfather before him \u2013 by employing a similar playbook of extreme rhetoric, often followed by acts of violence. So far, Mr. Trump has directed one operation to bolster his claim that he is perfectly willing to use force in an unpredictable manner: his decision a month ago to conduct an intensive, brief attack on a Syrian air base where American intelligence agencies say the Syrian government launched a chemical weapons attack on its own people. It had no follow-up. But for North Korea, lashing out to send a message is an art form, practiced since the days when Mr. Kim\u2019s grandfather ordered the seizure of the U.S.S. Pueblo in 1968, followed by the shoot-down of an American reconnaissance plane, killing 31. Then, seven years ago, came the sinking of a South Korean naval vessel \u2013 most likely by a North Korean torpedo, though the country denies it \u2013 that took 46 lives. The young Mr. Kim, who took over the following year after his father\u2019s death, has worked to burnish his own madman credentials. He is believed to have ordered the cyberattack on Sony Pictures Entertainment that wiped out the company\u2019s computer systems in 2014, and the killing of his half brother in Malaysia earlier this year, part of a sustained campaign to eliminate potential rivals. More than a few have been executed with antiaircraft guns, just to make a point. The fear is that small acts and mutual threats of war can lead to miscalculation. Only hours before Mr. Trump spoke, the North released a propaganda video showing the White House shattering apart in what looked like a nuclear blast. No one takes those videos seriously, but they indicate a state of mind in which every action has to have a reaction. \u201cThat\u2019s what I worry about the most,\u201d Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, said recently. \u201cRapid escalation.\u201d Past presidents have recognized the risk. It\u2019s notable that the shoot-down of the American spy plane in Nixon\u2019s time, one of the largest losses of Americans in a Cold War military attack, did not result in retaliation, in part for fear of rekindling the Korean War. Behind the scenes in the Trump White House, officials are just beginning to debate how to react to potential North Korean acts. One of the most active debates is what to do if the North attempts a test of an intercontinental ballistic missile. Should it be destroyed on the launchpad? Should the United States attempt to intercept it in midflight, with all the risks of escalation if that succeeds, and the risks of embarrassment if it fails? Such questions are still being debated, as recently as a meeting at the White House on Thursday, just as Mr. Trump and Mr. Tillerson were sending what sounded like uncoordinated messages.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/28/world/asia/trump-kim-jong-un-north-korean.html", "published_date": "2017-04-27T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "World", "updated_date": "2017-04-28T11:00:10-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News Analysis", "created_date": "2017-04-28T11:00:10-04:00", "abstract": "The White House has been sending different signals to Kim Jong-un, a master at keeping his adversaries unsettled.", "title": "Trump on North Korea: Tactic? \u2018Madman Theory\u2019? Or Just Mixed Messages?"}