{"updated_date": "2017-04-25T16:45:46-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "section": "World", "abstract": "Kurdish officials said that one Turkish airstrike mistakenly struck Kurdish pesh merga troops on Mount Sinjar in northwestern Iraq, killing at least five.", "text": "ERBIL, Iraq \u2014 Turkish warplanes bombed Kurdish fighters in Iraq and Syria on Tuesday in an unusually intense operation that presented a new complication for the United States\u2019 military campaign against the Islamic State. The Turkish military\u2019s targets included the Y.P.G., a Kurdish militia that has played an important role in the American-backed operations in Syria against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. Adding to the tensions in the region, Kurdish officials said one Turkish airstrike had mistakenly struck Kurdish pesh merga troops on Mount Sinjar in northwestern Iraq, killing at least five and wounding more, some critically. The pesh merga in Iraq\u2019s autonomous region carried out the opening attacks in the offensive to retake Mosul from the Islamic State, and they have been an American ally in operations against the militants. American officials said Turkey had informed the United States less than an hour in advance that it intended to carry out the bombing raids in the crowded airspace over northern Syria and Iraq. American officials said that they had asked Turkey not to proceed without proper coordination, but that the request was ignored. Mark Toner, a State Department spokesman, said the United States was \u201cdeeply concerned\u201d about the Turkish airstrikes, which were \u201cnot approved\u201d by the United States-led coalition that is fighting the Islamic State. \u201cIt was a surprise,\u201d Masrour Barzani, a top Kurdish security official in the Iraqi autonomous region, said of the Turkish attack on Mount Sinjar. \u201cThis was the first time they have been bombing there. They had been mostly bombing border areas.\u201d \u201cWe asked for some clarification but have not received any answers yet,\u201d he said in an interview. \u201cI hope on the Turkish side it was a mistake.\u201d Iraq\u2019s Foreign Ministry denounced the attacks in the Sinjar area as a violation of the country\u2019s sovereignty. The Turkish strikes pointed to continuing and deep tensions between the United States and Turkey over how to carry out the campaign against the Islamic State. The United States and Turkey have been sharply at odds over the Y.P.G. militia. American military officials regard the group as an essential partner in the operation to isolate and retake Raqqa, Syria, the Islamic State\u2019s self-proclaimed capital, and they want to arm its fighters for that mission. Lt. Gen. Stephen J. Townsend, who commands the American-led task force that is fighting the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, told reporters during a February trip to Syria that Turkey had no reason to fear the Y.P.G. or the umbrella group it is a crucial part of, the Syrian Democratic Forces. \u201cThe Turkish government is not really crazy that we are operating with the Syrian Democratic Forces, mostly because of their Kurdish and Y.P.G. components,\u201d General Townsend said. But the Kurdish fighters \u201ctell us they are not a threat to Turkey, and I believe that,\u201d he added. The Turkish government, however, insists that the Y.P.G. is closely linked to the Kurdistan Workers\u2019 Party, a separatist group known as the P.K.K. That group is listed by Turkey, the United States and Europe as a terrorist organization. American officials had hoped that Turkey would soften its stance after President Recep Tayyip Erdogan won a referendum this month that greatly increased his executive powers, a victory that brought a congratulatory phone call from President Trump. But any hope that Mr. Erdogan\u2019s position might reflect posturing before the vote appeared to vanish with the airstrikes. The Turkish military said in a statement that it had struck \u201cterror nests\u201d in northeast Syria and northwest Iraq that Kurdish separatists were using to send weapons and plan attacks inside Turkey. \u201cThe designated targets were hit,\u201d said the statement, which asserted that the bombing raids were \u201cbased on international law.\u201d The division between Turkey and the United States was only highlighted when the Kurdish news media posted photographs of a United States military officer, in the company of Y.P.G. leaders, visiting the site in Syria that was bombed. Mr. Erdogan is scheduled to meet with Mr. Trump in Washington next month. A statement issued by Ridor Kahlil, a spokesman for the Y.P.G., said 20 fighters were killed in the Turkish airstrikes. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a monitoring group, said the targets included a radio station east of Hasaka owned by the Y.P.G. The Turkish airstrikes on Mount Sinjar began around 2 a.m. and lasted about an hour, Capt. Falah Abu Zeid, an officer with the Iraqi Kurdish pesh merga, said in a telephone interview. The bombing, he added, struck four Y.P.G. and P.K.K. headquarters in the area. \u201cIf there were any fighters in those headquarters, it would have been impossible for them to survive because of the force of the shelling,\u201d he said. But one of the missiles, he added, struck communications towers near a pesh merga headquarters, killing and wounding pesh merga fighters. The Kurdish autonomous government in Iraq has long had an acrimonious relationship with the Y.P.G. and P.K.K., which, like Turkey, it regards as one and the same. The pesh merga offensive to retake Sinjar from the Islamic State in 2015 was delayed by tensions between the pesh merga and the P.K.K., who competed to take the lead in the battle. And it was noteworthy that Mr. Barzani, the Kurdish security official, did not call on Turkey to cease its airstrikes in Iraq but instead pointed the finger of blame at the P.K.K. \u201cThe P.K.K. is the reason for all of these problems,\u201d he said. \u201cThey are the reason the Turks are bombing. It is not a matter of whether we like it or not. The P.K.K. is dragging the Turks in.\u201d", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/25/world/middleeast/turkey-kurds-airstrikes-iraq-syria.html", "published_date": "2017-04-24T20:00:00-04:00", "created_date": "2017-04-25T16:25:55-04:00", "material_type_facet": "News", "title": "Turkish Strikes Target Kurdish Allies of U.S. in Iraq and Syria", "item_type": "Article"}