{"text": "ISTANBUL \u2014 A Russian naval ship sank off Turkey\u2019s Black Sea coast on Thursday after colliding with a merchant vessel, the Turkish coast guard and the Russian military have confirmed. All 78 Russian crew members were rescued, the Turkish coast guard said. The Liman, a Russian reconnaissance ship, sank shortly before 3 p.m., after hitting a private livestock vessel amid heavy fog some 17 miles from the coast north of the Bosporus, according to the Gulf Agency Company, a major shipping agency. The livestock carrier, the Youzarsif H, which was flying the Togolese flag, survived intact and took part in the rescue, picking up 15 Russian sailors. The Liman was not traceable on boat-tracking websites, but the Youzarsif H could be seen circling at low speed on Thursday afternoon in the area where the Russian vessel sank. The Youzarsif H was on its way to Jordan, having set off from Romania on Wednesday night. After heading due south through the Black Sea for several hours, it suddenly slowed down and circled several times at around midday on Thursday, seemingly after it had collided with the Liman. Records show the Liman was a Soviet-era ship and weighed 1,560 tons. Over the past century, hundreds of boats have collided in the Bosporus, one of the world\u2019s busiest and narrowest international waterways. Russian naval ships frequently pass through on their way to a Russian base in Tartus, a Mediterranean city controlled by the Syrian government. The Bosporus connects the Mediterranean with the Black Sea, where most of the Russian fleet is housed. Russian ships passed through the Bosporus even at the height of a diplomatic crisis between Russia and Turkey, after Turkey shot down a Russian jet that flew over its territory during a mission along the Turkish-Syrian border. Turkey and Russia support different sides in the Syrian civil war, but increasingly coordinate on some issues in the conflict. They worked together to organize the Astana peace talks between the Turkish-backed rebels and the Russian-backed government, while Russian jets avoid targeting Turkish-backed militias fighting in northern Syria.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/27/world/europe/turkey-russian-ship-collision.html", "published_date": "2017-04-26T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "World", "updated_date": "2017-04-27T10:54:54-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-27T10:54:54-04:00", "abstract": "The Liman, a reconnaissance ship, sank after hitting a private livestock vessel near the northern end of the Bosporus amid heavy fog.", "title": "78 Rescued as Russian Naval Ship Sinks After Collision"}