{"text": "The media industry has been rife with consolidation in recent years: Cable companies, film studios and telecommunications firms have all been bought and sold at a rapid clip. Now, local television stations are at the center of the deal-making frenzy. Last week, a day after the Federal Communications Commission eased regulations over how many stations an owner may have, Sinclair Broadcasting, the largest local broadcast group in the country, said it would buy 14 New York-based stations for $240 million. The timing of Sinclair\u2019s deal may not have hinged directly on the change, but it demonstrated a demand for broadcast station mergers. Sinclair did not reply to requests for comment. And now, a bidding war has begun over Tribune Media, the owner of WGN America and, in New York, PIX 11. The Blackstone Group appears to be working with 21st Century Fox on a bid for Tribune. And Sinclair is also circling that company. \u201cThe F.C.C. has basically said: \u2018Game on. We\u2019re going to let you consolidate further than anyone had imagined,\u2019\u201d said Richard Greenfield, a media analyst at BTIG. Consolidation of local broadcast stations could lead to more expensive fees for consumers as providers pass on ever-higher fees from broadcasters and content creators to subscribers. But to media companies, the mantra of late has been that bigger is better. For broadcast station companies in particular \u2014 including Sinclair, Fox and the Nexstar Media Group \u2014 owning more stations increases their power over cable companies, which pay to retransmit the stations. Fox\u2019s motive for pursuing Tribune, which has the most affiliates of any station owner, largely appears to be blocking a deal with Sinclair. It plans to form a joint venture with the Blackstone Group, an investment giant, in which Blackstone would provide the cash for a deal while Fox would provide its own television stations, according to people briefed on the plans who were not authorized to speak publicly about the matter. If successful, Fox would then reduce its direct exposure to local television stations, Mr. Greenfield said, while still holding on to a piece \u2014 and while stymieing a rival. Details of the potential joint venture were unclear, as were the precise reasons Fox was turning to Blackstone. Tribune is a relatively small company, with a market value of about $3.4 billion. But for companies like Fox and Sinclair, consolidation is also a defensive move, shoring them up at a time when online rivals like Netflix and Hulu are commanding more viewers. Content providers like CBS and the Walt Disney Company are also pushing for bigger fees from broadcasters. And local television advertising, excluding political ads and the Olympics, were roughly flat last year, according to research from Magna Global, with expectations that 2017 will be even tougher. Getting bigger through station acquisitions, then, is meant to help these companies drive harder bargains. And smaller operators have emerged as potential takeover targets: The stock prices of two other broadcast companies, E. W. Scripps and Gray Television, are both up sharply this year. Underpinning broadcasters\u2019 dreams of expansion is the hope that Ajit Pai, the F.C.C.\u2019s new chairman and a Republican, will let through the kinds of deal making that had been held up during the Obama administration. \u201cCompanies are talking about deals now because they have reason to believe the F.C.C. will relax all the ownership rules,\u201d said Paul Gallant, an analyst at Cowen and Company. The first tangible step came with a 2-to-1 vote by the F.C.C. last week to reintroduce the so-called UHF discount. Longstanding rules prohibit companies from covering more than 39 percent of American households, but the UHF discount allows station owners to exclude certain stations that operate in ultrahigh frequencies. With the reinstated discount, according to calculations by Fitch Ratings, Sinclair\u2019s household coverage percentage has fallen to about 25 percent, from 38 percent, while Nexstar\u2019s has dropped to 27 percent, from 39 percent, opening the door to new mergers and acquisitions. \u201cThis represents a rational first step in media ownership reform policy allowing free and local broadcasters to remain competitive with multinational pay TV giants and broadband providers,\u201d Gordon Smith, president of the National Association of Broadcasters, said in a statement. The F.C.C.\u2019s rule change followed pressure from industry groups. One week before the vote, Mitch Rose, NBC Universal\u2019s senior vice president for government relations, visited the office of the other Republican commissioner on the F.C.C., Michael O\u2019Reilly, urging him to reinstate the UHF discount. And in February, Tribune Media\u2019s general counsel, Edward Lazarus, met with Mr. Pai\u2019s chief of staff, Matthew Berry, and urged for the change in rules. Mr. Pai has long been critical of strict broadcast ownership rules. He has said that online media companies such as Google, Facebook and Netflix are competing for audiences that were once served only by television. He has also been skeptical of rules against broadcast ownership limits, given that the agency has approved mergers in competing industries, including Charter\u2019s purchase of Time Warner Cable and AT&T\u2019s purchase of DirecTV. At the annual National Association of Broadcasters convention in Las Vegas last week, Mr. Pai announced his intention to re-examine other media ownership rules. Broadcasters hope that one limit that may be removed is a prohibition on owning more than two stations in a local market. Consumer groups and Democrats in Congress and at the F.C.C. warn that the changes will lead to great industry consolidation, giving a few companies great influence over news and public opinion. The action \u201cwill actually harm the public interest, by reducing diversity, competition and localism,\u201d Mignon Clyburn, the sole Democrat at the F.C.C., said after the UHF discount vote. In a letter to Mr. Pai last month, Democratic House members argued against both the UHF discount and a union of Sinclair and Tribune. Such a merger, they contended, could lead to higher cable fees because Sinclair charges cable companies more than Tribune does to retransmit its broadcasts. \u201cThese were mergers that could never have been contemplated a year ago,\u201d Mr. Greenfield, of BTIG, said of the deals that might blossom under the new F.C.C. \u201cYou\u2019re enabling the impossible in many ways, so people are saying, \u2018Let\u2019s take a shot at this.\u2019\u201d", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/01/business/dealbook/tv-station-owners-rush-to-seize-on-relaxed-fcc-rules.html", "published_date": "2017-04-30T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Business Day", "updated_date": "2017-05-01T21:02:33-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-01T20:58:33-04:00", "abstract": "A vote by the Federal Communications Commission last week sets the stage for the consolidation of local television stations in a deal-making frenzy.", "title": "TV Station Owners Rush to Seize on Relaxed F.C.C. Rules"}