{"text": "Anthony Levandowski, the Uber executive accused of stealing trade secrets from Google, is stepping aside from leading some of the company\u2019s work on self-driving vehicles, amid a bare-knuckled legal fight between the two technology giants. Mr. Levandowski, one of the self-driving-car industry\u2019s more experienced engineers, has recused himself from working on Uber\u2019s lidar technology \u2014 short for light detection and ranging, a key hardware component in the operation of any autonomous vehicle. Mr. Levandowski disclosed the change on Thursday in an internal memo that was obtained by Business Insider, adding that he will no longer attend meetings or make decisions about lidar efforts while legal proceedings continue. \u201cWe should all be proud that our self-driving technology has been built independently, from the ground up,\u201d Mr. Levandowski said in his email, which was addressed to his Uber employees. \u201cWith this move, I hope to keep the team focused on achieving the vision that brought us all here.\u201d Uber confirmed the email and declined to comment further. The move punctuates an increasingly nasty legal battle between Uber and Waymo, the self-driving-vehicle company that was spun off from Google\u2019s parent company. In February, Waymo sued Uber, alleging that the ride-hailing company was using intellectual property, including downloaded documents, stolen by Mr. Levandowski when he was an executive at Google. Waymo is asking a federal court to issue an injunction that would halt Uber's work on self-driving cars, which the judge in the case is expected to decide on next week. If the decision goes in Waymo\u2019s favor, it could seriously impede Uber\u2019s progress in autonomous vehicle research. Mr. Levandowski\u2019s shift in role appears designed to shield Uber from any perception of impropriety during the litigation. But legal scholars question whether the change will be effective. \u201cAssuming a successful suit, Waymo could get damages for the period AL was involved,\u201d Michael Carrier, a professor at Rutgers Law School, said in an email, referring to Mr. Levandowski. \u201cIf the purloined documents are still accessible to, and can be implemented by, the rest of the team, his recusal makes no difference.\u201d With the change in role, Eric Meyhofer, a principal at Uber\u2019s Advanced Technologies Group in Pittsburgh, will lead the driverless car division and report directly to Uber\u2019s chief executive, Travis Kalanick. Mr. Levandowski, who had reported to Mr. Kalanick, will report to Mr. Meyhofer. Mr. Levandowski remains in charge of handling testing and operations of Uber\u2019s self-driving vehicle group in cities. At the heart of Waymo\u2019s case is the technology involved in Uber\u2019s lidar. Mr. Levandowski, a pioneer in the field of self-driving research, worked for Google\u2019s autonomous vehicle wing for nearly a decade, but left to form his own start-up, Otto, at the beginning of 2016. He sold that start-up to Uber in August for $680 million. Waymo alleged that before Mr. Levandowski left Google, he copied and took with him terabytes\u2019 worth of proprietary research information on Google\u2019s lidar hardware. Mr. Levandowski has denied the assertions, and Uber has similarly denied that it is using driverless car technology stolen from Google. At stake is what many technologists consider to be the intersection of the next wave of computing, artificial intelligence and an entirely new category of transportation. Mr. Kalanick has said the race for self-driving technology is \u201cexistential\u201d to Uber\u2019s future, looking ahead to a day when smart driverless vehicles can move millions of people around as quickly and efficiently as possible. That race has been heating up. Waymo said this week it plans to test driverless vehicles with the public in Arizona, part of a partnership with Fiat Chrysler. General Motors purchased Cruise Automation, an autonomous-vehicle technology start-up, in 2016 for $1 billion in cash and stock, and is working with the Uber rival Lyft on its ambitions for an autonomous-vehicle network. Other players include Tesla, which offers a version of self-driving technology. Apple, too, is working on a project on self-driving cars, which has changed in tenor and scope as the company has run into some hurdles internally over the past year. This month, Apple obtained a permit to test self-driving vehicles in California.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/27/technology/uber-self-driving-cars-anthony-levandowski-google.html", "published_date": "2017-04-26T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Technology", "updated_date": "2017-04-27T19:49:36-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-27T19:49:36-04:00", "abstract": "Anthony Levandowski, the engineer at the center of litigation over driverless car technology, said he will no longer work on a key part of the technology at Uber.", "title": "Uber Executive Steps Back From Self-Driving Cars During Waymo Legal Fight"}