{"section": "Opinion", "created_date": "2017-04-17T15:56:29-04:00", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/17/opinion/when-hate-leads-to-depression.html", "material_type_facet": "Op-Ed", "title": "When Hate Leads to Depression", "item_type": "Article", "updated_date": "2017-04-17T16:27:13-04:00", "source": "The New York Times", "abstract": "Sometimes the physical impact of a hate crime is just the beginning.", "text": "This Week in Hate highlights hate crimes and harassment around the country since the election of President Trump. Women afraid to go out in public. College students struggling in school. Employees feeling unsafe on the job. People of all walks of life experiencing anxiety, depression and post-traumatic stress disorder. These are some of the mental and emotional effects of what advocates say is a wave of hate crimes and racist harassment that started during President Trump\u2019s campaign. Muslims, immigrants and members of other groups targeted with violence and intimidation are seeking help to deal with lingering trauma. But mental health groups and advocates are finding that the specialized support they need doesn\u2019t always exist. The Family and Youth Institute, which studies the mental health needs of American Muslims, has seen more reports of anxiety and depression since the campaign began, as well as more people seeking therapy and asking questions about mental health. It\u2019s not only victims of hate crimes who are affected, according to Dr. Sameera Ahmed, the director of the institute \u2014 anti-Muslim harassment and political rhetoric are having a psychological impact on many American Muslims, regardless of whether they have been personally targeted. Muslims in America have been in \u201cperpetual crisis mode\u201d in recent years, dealing with the aftermath of the 2015 Paris attacks, followed by President Trump\u2019s campaign, election, inauguration and travel ban, said Dr. Rania Awaad, the director of the Muslims and Mental Health Lab at Stanford University and the clinical director of the San Francisco Bay Area branch of the Khalil Center, a Muslim counseling center. In November, the center offered a support group for young people, some of whom had been harassed at school, but their parents wouldn\u2019t leave \u2014 they wanted help too. Eventually, \u201cthey went to a corner of the conference room and created their own little support group,\u201d Dr. Awaad said. Not everyone can find support in the wake of a hate crime. Dr. Prabhjot Singh, now the chair of the department of health system design and global health at the Mount Sinai Health System, felt angry and depressed after he was attacked in New York in 2005, when he was in graduate school. He reached out to mental health services at his university, but they weren\u2019t much help, since they were geared toward people with severe psychiatric illness. When he was attacked again a few years later, his anger, depression and sense of isolation deepened. He dealt with them by throwing himself into work. He also began practicing his Sikh religion more actively, growing his beard and waking up before dawn to meditate. Then, in 2013, he was attacked by a group of young men who called him \u201cOsama\u201d and \u201cterrorist\u201d and punched him in the face, breaking his jaw. That attack got significant media attention, and people began to email him asking for advice after they or their loved ones experienced hate crimes. The volume of recent messages has been a sign for him that hate crimes are on the rise. \u201cI just hear it in my inbox,\u201d he said. Sometimes Dr. Singh can help the people who write to him, and sometimes he can\u2019t. He sees a lack of resources for people who have been victims of hate crimes: \u201cI don\u2019t think there\u2019s really a good way for people who have had this type of experience to find useful community.\u201d Some nonprofit groups are mobilizing to offer mental health services for people affected by hate crimes or harassment, who may have unique needs that conventional therapy doesn\u2019t always address. Staff at the YWCA of Kalamazoo in western Michigan found that while people who had experienced hate crimes could find individual counseling in the area, which is home to many immigrants working in the agriculture industry, there were no services for people feeling the indirect effects of hate crimes against people of their race or religion, said Jessica Glynn, the director of law and policy at the YWCA. To fill the gap, the YWCA of Kalamazoo earlier this year created a support group for survivors, witnesses and others affected by hate crimes, and plans to create more groups in the area if needed. Established a year and a half ago, the Bay Area Khalil Center has already expanded to include a second branch, and a third is in the works. In addition to support groups, the center offers individual therapy with Muslim therapists. Working with a therapist who shares their religion means patients \u201cdon\u2019t have to start from scratch explaining things,\u201d said Dr. Awaad. The Maryland chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations holds free self-defense workshops and recently conducted its first training on how to respond to an active shooter. Learning preparedness skills can help people cope with anxiety and fear, said Dr. Zainab Chaudry, the council\u2019s Maryland outreach manager. \u201cWe can\u2019t control external factors in our environment,\u201d she added, \u201cbut we can control how we respond.\u201d Since the attack in 2013, Dr. Singh has discovered that little research or advice exists to help doctors identify and treat patients who have experienced hate crimes. He\u2019s begun work on a guide, perhaps drawing on techniques developed to treat survivors of domestic and sexual violence. Dr. Singh saw the election of President Trump as the latest symptom of a deep national confusion that he\u2019s not sure how to address. But he takes comfort in his Sikh practice: \u201cfinding that stillness, finding that discipline to remember that we know each other far more than we say we do. We are all connected.\u201d If you have experienced, witnessed or read about a hate crime or incident of bias or harassment, you can use this form to send information about the incident to This Week in Hate and other partners in the Documenting Hate project. The form is not a report to law enforcement or any government agency. These resources may be helpful for people who have experienced harassment. If you witness harassment, here are some tips for responding. You can contact This Week in Hate at weekinhate@nytimes.com.", "published_date": "2017-04-16T20:00:00-04:00"}