{"text": "No, it was not an April Fools\u2019 trick, and it most definitely was not a joke. Contrary to the suspicions of some readers, our focus on Lambrusco was absolutely, joyously serious. Welcome back to Wine School, where we trust primary-source material rather than accept popular notions. For us, the primary sources are the bottles themselves, and for Lambrusco, which has spent years on the list of reviled wines, the proof was in the drinking. You know how Wine School works. Each month, we focus on a particular genre of wine. I suggest three examples, which you drink at home in a relaxed setting with family, friends and food. Then we discuss the wines. My selection of Lambrusco met with no small amount of skepticism from those whose impression of the wine was formed years ago, when sweet, mass-produced Lambruscos were the best-selling wines in the country. As with so many wine drinkers, these skeptics haven\u2019t kept up with the news. What has been true for several years now bears repeating: Real Lambrusco is back. These wines have little to do with the sickly sweet beverages that dominated the market in the 1980s. Real Lambrusco is a fresh, dry, earthy, effervescent red, with a slight bitterness that goes beautifully with the rich cuisine of Emilia-Romagna, its home region in north-central Italy. Even though we are well into the 21st century, the wisdom of the past \u2014 that aspirational wine drinkers should avoid Lambrusco as they would ros\u00e9s and Sicilian wines, to cite two other shibboleths \u2014 still has a hold on people. Fortunately, even the skeptics approached the wines with open minds. \u201cFun, great in warm weather, easy to drink, versatile, low prices \u2014 have changed my mind about Lambrusco,\u201d wrote VSB, a reader in San Francisco. I am glad so many readers seemed to like the wines. Even so, I must offer an apology: One of the three wines I chose turned out to have been an impostor. Let me explain. I recommended three bottles: Camillo Donati Lambrusco dell\u2019Emilia I.G.P. 2014, Vigneto Saetti Lambrusco dell\u2019Emilia I.G.P. 2015 and Cleto Chiarli Lambrusco Grasparossa di Castelvetro Pruno Nero NV. The Donati and the Saetti were not problems. But the retail shop where I bought the Cleto Chiarli sent me the wrong bottle, the Chiarli Pruno Nero Dry VS, rather than the Grasparossa di Castelvetro Pruno Nero. I noticed this, and alerted the shop. I then left New York for a vacation in Brazil. When I returned to New York and arranged for the correct bottles to be sent to me, the wrong bottles were delivered yet again. The wrong Chiarli was also photographed by The Times, although we had double-checked to make sure the photographer would receive the correct bottle from the shop. It turned out that because of a cataloging error by the wine\u2019s wholesaler, all computerized references to the Grasparossa di Castelvetro in the New York area led instead to the Dry VS. After the shop discovered the problem, it concluded that the Grasparossa di Castelvetro was unavailable in New York. In the end, I drank the Dry VS, as did some readers. The Dry VS, in my opinion, was a far cry from the lively, dry, refreshingly bitter wine I had in mind. Instead, it seemed straightforward and one-dimensional. While not as cloying as the bad Lambruscos of old, it gave the undeniable impression of sweetness. Several readers, including George Erdle of Charlotte, N.C., and Dan Barron of New York, noted this. Mr. Erdle\u2019s group concluded that the Chiarli was \u201cnot a food wine.\u201d But Mr. Barron, while allowing that the Chiarli was \u201caccessible, candied and a bit oversweet,\u201d had a surprising experience when he paired it with white asparagus served with a \u201cblack-truffle fondue.\u201d \u201cIt was the night\u2019s best pairing,\u201d he said, \u201clovely with the creamy, lightly tangy sauce.\u201d That\u2019s an open mind. I found both the sense of sweetness and the wine\u2019s one-dimensionality an obstacle to pleasure with either pizza or saut\u00e9ed pork chops. For me, the Saetti is the gold standard in New York-area Lambruscos these days. The 2015 was savory yet floral, with flavors of dark fruits and earth, and a meaty undertone. It was beautifully produced, and I have found it to be wonderful year after year. Those who were able to find this wine largely loved it. With the combination of the Saetti and the pizza, Martin Schappeit of Forest, Va., had an epiphany. \u201cIt gave me a \u2018This Planet is a beautiful place to live\u2019 moment, surrounded by green trees and singing birds,\u201d he said. \u201cMy best slice of pizza so far.\u201d Despite the Chiarli mixup, it was the third bottle, the Camillo Donati, that was the most polarizing of the group. On opening the Donati, most readers noted what might politely be called a barnyard, animal smell. It was the most powerful note in a complex set of aromas that also included flowers, dark fruits and savory meats. In Mr. Barron\u2019s group, the wine was likened to both a barnyard and horse sweat. Still, the members enjoyed it with pappardelle and braised duck. \u201cBarnyardy and sophisticated?\u201d Mr. Barron asked. \u201cDefinitely fun.\u201d On another night, though, Mr. Barron said the wine fell flat. Mr. Erdle described the Donati as \u201cnot pleasant, despite its good body and offerings of dark fruit.\u201d Yet, with ravioli, prosciutto and ramps, his group found it likable. \u201cThis was not a finesse wine,\u201d he concluded, \u201cbut it was our second favorite.\u201d What is that barnyard flavor? My best guess is that it is brettanomyces, a yeast that as a modest accent can add interest to a wine, but in excess can ruin it. Most mainstream winemakers eliminate any trace of brettanomyces by filtering the wine or adding sulfur dioxide, a commonly used stabilizer, during the production process. But the Donati is a natural Lambrusco. Its proprietor does not use sulfur dioxide, which means there is the possibility of brettanomyces or some other sort of microbiological incursion. Interestingly, the Saetti, too, is a natural Lambrusco made without sulfur dioxide, and it was perfectly clean. If winemakers decide to work without sulfur dioxide, it\u2019s crucial that they work meticulously to avoid the possibility of contamination. I have had different vintages of the Donati with little trace of brettanomyces. I am not sure what happened this time. As I said, a touch as an accent can add interest to a wine, but this example was too much. Aside from sharing a natural approach, the Saetti and Donati have another characteristic in common. They are both small-production wines, and both achieve their effervescence in a traditional manner, with fermentation completed in the bottle. The byproduct of this fermentation is carbon dioxide, which, unable to escape the sealed bottle, carbonates the wine. By contrast, the Chiarli is produced in far greater quantity and, like most Lambruscos, is carbonated in bulk in pressurized tanks. It is a different sort of wine, and while mass-produced Lambruscos can be very good, they are rarely as distinctive as the artisanal versions. Lambrusco can be made from about a half-dozen grapes, and indeed, each of these three bottles was made with a different one. The Chiarli was made of the grasparossa (as was the Chiarli I had intended to drink). The Donati was made of the maestri, and the Saetti of the salamino. The notion of sparkling red wines strikes some wine drinkers as a bit weird. But in Italy, they are not uncommon. Lambrusco is just one of a handful of reds in Italy that are called vivace, or lightly sparkling. Wine School readers had no problem with it. MindWanderer of New York said Lambrusco was now part of a regular rotation of rooftop wines, while Ferguson of Princeton, N.J., said, \u201cThe texture was good, definitely not weird.\u201d If this was your first exposure to good Lambrusco, I hope you will take it as an invitation to find your own favorites among the many different styles and characteristics. Inadvertently, these Lambruscos offered two lessons. First, natural wines are like any other genre of wine: Some are really good, and some are not for everybody, or anybody, really. Second, and this is true whether you are buying wines retail or in a restaurant, always read the label and make sure you are getting what you ordered. Follow NYT Food on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/27/dining/wine-school-lambrusco.html", "published_date": "2017-04-26T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Food", "updated_date": "2017-04-27T15:39:17-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-27T15:39:06-04:00", "abstract": "Conventional wisdom about this sparkling red may pose an obstacle, but drinking the wine will revise many opinions.", "title": "Lambrusco Shakes Off Its Cloying Reputation"}