{"text": "WASHINGTON \u2014 In the early days of the Trump presidency, Republicans and Democrats on Capitol Hill have not agreed on much. But they have come together to keep the government open for the next several months. The more than $1 trillion spending deal that congressional leaders reached on Sunday was an act of compromise, a rarity in a highly polarized Congress. But that was the easy part. The current fiscal year is already more than halfway over, and the new spending package \u2014 which must still be approved by lawmakers \u2014 covers only the next five months. A bigger fight awaits as the year goes on and President Trump tries to put his imprint on the budget for the next fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1. Here is a look at some winners and losers in the current spending deal. The Trump administration has little to brag about in this deal. The agreement provides an additional $15 billion in military spending, but that is only half of what Mr. Trump had sought. The Trump administration called for $18 billion in cuts to domestic programs. Lawmakers were not receptive, and their response provides a preview of how members of Congress from both parties might respond as Mr. Trump presses for bigger cuts in the 2018 budget. Consider the fate of the National Institutes of Health. The Trump administration sought a $1.2 billion reduction in funding for the agency for the current fiscal year, but congressional negotiators ended up agreeing on a $2 billion increase. Consigned to the minority and still processing their grief over the presidential election, Democrats in Congress entered this year in a fairly bleak state. But spending measures are one area where they can still exert considerable influence even while in the minority. Democrats emerged from the spending talks with a respectable list of victories, including providing funds for Puerto Rico\u2019s Medicaid program as well as for costs incurred by local law enforcement \u2014 like the New York Police Department \u2014 to protect Mr. Trump and his family. But even more significantly, the Democrats were able to push back on Mr. Trump. Few campaign promises have been as central and as polarizing as Mr. Trump\u2019s oft-repeated vow to build a wall along the border with Mexico, which he insisted Mexico would pay for. Mr. Trump had wanted money to be included in the spending deal to go toward the wall, but he eventually backed down from that demand \u2014 a crucial concession that helped smooth the path for congressional negotiators completing the spending deal. (The agreement does include more funding for border security.) Mr. Trump still insists he will build his wall, meaning that lawmakers are likely to face future pressure to come up with funding. A standoff over health care for retired coal miners raised the prospect of a government shutdown in December. Ultimately, Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, and other Democrats backed down, and the lights stayed on. But Mr. Manchin and others vowed to continue their fight. The agreement reached by lawmakers includes a permanent extension of health benefits for retired miners who faced losing their health coverage, a victory for Mr. Manchin; Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the Senate majority leader; and other lawmakers from coal states. Despite the desire of congressional Republicans to cut off federal funds to Planned Parenthood, the spending package spares the organization.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/01/us/politics/winners-and-losers-of-the-spending-deal-spoiler-alert-trump-lost.html", "published_date": "2017-04-30T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "U.S.", "updated_date": "2017-05-01T14:53:18-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-01T14:53:18-04:00", "abstract": "The deal reached by congressional leaders was a rare act of compromise, and some parties \u2014 coal miners, Planned Parenthood \u2014 clearly came out ahead.", "title": "Winners and Losers of the Spending Deal (Spoiler Alert: Trump Lost)"}