{"text": "YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK, Wyo. \u2014 The vast, sagebrush-studded valleys in this huge chunk of wild country, teeming with herds of elk and bison, are home these days to 10 packs of wolves. Once among the first species to be listed as endangered, the gray wolf has made a healthy comeback within Yellowstone National Park and its bordering states. Since 1995-96 when 31 wolves were trucked into the park from Canada, their numbers have grown and stabilized to the point that officials could essentially post a \u201cno vacancy sign\u201d at Yellowstone. That\u2019s because the park\u2019s wolf population has hovered for the last decade at 100, give or take, which experts consider Yellowstone\u2019s carrying capacity. Protected on parkland, gray wolves show little fear of humans, often living out their lives within view of roads. They attract thousands of tourists a year who sometimes become witnesses to the life-or-death dramas between predator and prey. And some catch a glimpse of a rare white wolf. \u201cYellowstone is the best place in the world to view wolves,\u201d said Douglas Smith, the park\u2019s wolf biologist, as he hiked up a fog-shrouded hill searching for one of the packs. The sprawling 2.2 million-acre park acts as a laboratory for Dr. Smith and other scientists, who are conducting a long-term study of this very rare population of wolves \u2014 unusual because they are neither shot nor trapped. And it turns out a wolf protected from human killing is a very different animal from those that are hunted. That may change, researchers say, as more hunting is allowed in the states that surround the park. As the packs grew, many wolves roamed outside the national park, replenishing the wild lands. Wolves now number about 1,700 in the Western states of Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, Oregon and Washington. Threats to livestock have intensified in recent years, pitting ranchers against conservationists and prompting some states to permit limited wolf hunting again at certain times. In March, a United States Court of Appeals paved the way for Wyoming to join Idaho and Montana in allowing wolf hunting. Wildlife officials are now planning a hunting season on gray wolves for this fall, based on the court\u2019s ruling that the state\u2019s plan to manage wolves was adequate to ensure that the once-threatened species would not be imperiled again by hunting wolves near the park or those that leave it. Experts say that the gray wolf is no longer in danger of being completely wiped out by hunting. Their extirpation by the 1920s or so was caused by unregulated killing. But expanding the hunt for wolves around the edges of the park poses several issues at Yellowstone Park, where the management protects wildlife so people can watch and study it. \u201cWhat will hunting wolves nearby do to that?\u201d Dr. Smith asked. A study underway that Yellowstone has joined with Denali and Grand Teton National Parks is examining that very question. A paper published last year by Dr. Smith and others found that sightings of wolves in Denali and Yellowstone \u201cwere significantly reduced\u201d by as much as 45 percent from trapping and hunting. If the wolves become less visible, that could diminish the steady flow of tourism dollars, given that wolf watching in Yellowstone alone is estimated to generate $35 million a year for the regional economy. Officials in Montana have already placed a quota on the number of wolves that could be shot by hunters north of the park \u2014 four each season \u2014 to minimize the impact on wolf watching in the park. Yet another possible effect of expanded hunting would be the disruption of a historic long-term wolf research project. . Yellowstone\u2019s vast wilderness provides the only place in the world where many packs of wolves, free from human hunting, live in full view of groups of biologists equipped with high-tech research equipment. Ten of the park\u2019s wolves wear GPS collars that beam their whereabouts as many as 48 times a day to a satellite, providing researchers with unprecedented detail on what wolves do all day. A team of up to 20 researchers and volunteers, sitting on a hilltop with spotting scopes or peering down from aircraft, witness the daily goings-on year-round. Camera traps record remote wolf activity. And because they have lived without the threat of being shot and with near daily tourist traffic \u2014 the wolves ignore the researchers and are readily observed. As a result, a complex and in some cases unprecedented portrait of wolves is emerging. For example, protected wolves regard humans very differently. \u201cWolf hunters talk about seeing a pack of park wolves outside the boundary, and being able to pick the one they want,\u201d Dr. Smith said. \u201cThey just stand there and have no fear.\u201d While all wolves are very social with a hierarchy, those pack rules are often corrupted when human hunting enters the picture. In the park, researchers are getting a thorough look at pure wolf social dynamics \u2014 within and between packs. For the first time, pack longevity has been studied in depth, the life span of a pack is eight to 10 years in the park. One pack called the Druid is more than 20 years old. Hunted wolf packs, on the other hand, often last just two or three years. When one or two of the wolves are shot or trapped, members of the pack often scatter and reform with different members. Park wolves live to be about five, double thethe life span outside its borders. Yellowstone\u2019soldest wolf reached 12 \u00bd years. Group dynamics also change significantly, sometimes in mercurial ways, when membership shifts or a pack loses individuals. \u201cPersonalities matter,\u201d Dr. Smith said, noting that science doesn\u2019t have a good way to assess the effect. \u201cIt\u2019s really hard.\u201d Then there is the role of the wise wolf to consider. During pack warfare, a deciding factor can be the presence of an elder, a single wolf older than five, that is even more important than the number of wolves, researchers found. \u201cIt was a surprise,\u201d said Kira Cassidy, a Park Service biologist and an author of the study. \u201cI attribute it to the fact that older wolves will only engage their neighbors if they feel they are likely to win.\u201d Research here also leads Dr. Smith to believe that wolf packs are matrilineal. Males come and go, he said, but \u201cGramma, Mom and the daughter are the ones that stick around\u201d and carry on the pack through generations. There is some evidence that the increase in hunting could alter this research. When the alpha female in the Lamar Canyon pack left Yellowstone in 2012 and was shot, the pack split into two and the alpha male left because the new alpha female was his daughter. (Wolves avoid inbreeding.) Of course, the life of a wolf is a high-risk occupation and natural deaths occur all the time, especially when a pack tries to kill animals with hooves and horns 20 times their size. In early April, an alpha female with \u201ca belly full of pups\u201d was killed either by an elk or a bison, Dr. Smith said. Because only the alpha female in a group reproduces, \u201cthat means the pack won\u2019t have pups this year,\u201d he said. Outside the park, ranchers have been vocal in their support of expanding hunting, citing real threats to their livestock. Jon Robinett of Dubois, Wyo., says he has lost hundreds of cattle, several horses and six dogs to wolves over the last 20 years. While there are 50 wolves in his part of the Dunoir Valley, allowing hunters to take out five won\u2019t accomplish much, he said. \u201cKilling is what wolves do,\u201d he said, adding that even with reduced numbers, \u201cthey aren\u2019t going to quit their home range.\u201d The state compensates him for lost cattle, he said, \u201cbut it doesn\u2019t make you whole.\u201d Some biologists say there are legitimate reasons to allow hunting, perhaps most important to placate residents. \u201cA little blood satisfies a lot of anger,\u201d said Ed Bangs, a retired Fish and Wildlife biologist who led the effort to restore wolves to the northern Rockies. \u201cThe wolf most likely to get harvested by a hunter is one that is in open areas with road access,\u201d the interface between ranches and wild land, Dr. Bangs said. \u201cSo hunters are removing the animals with the highest probability of getting in trouble with livestock.\u201d Dr. Smith says the wolf personality is not the only wild card in the Yellowstone frame \u2014 humans figure in as well. Last year, the famed white wolf left the park and went into Montana for a few days. Dr. Smith said a hunter who hates wolves sought the 11-year-old female out as a prize trophy. But the animal returned to safety in the park. Just last month, the wolf was found with severe injuries and was euthanized. Law enforcement is investigating her death. She was almost twice as old as most wolves here, but will be missed. \u201cShe was the most coveted wolf to see,\u201d Dr. Smith said.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/01/science/wolves-hunting-yellowstone-national-park.html", "published_date": "2017-04-30T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "Science", "updated_date": "2017-05-01T14:38:49-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-05-01T14:38:49-04:00", "abstract": "Packs of the animals, once endangered, have flourished, but biologists worry about the effects of renewed hunting outside the national park.", "title": "The New Threat to Wolves in and Around Yellowstone"}