{"text": "John Zhang, a well-known specialist in reproductive medicine who runs the New Hope Fertility Center out of a vast and science-fiction-looking office on Columbus Circle, believes he has played a singular role in the fiscal health of New York City. Patients come to him from around the world, from the Middle East, from Kenya, from Nigeria, Spain and China. Perhaps especially from China. Dr. Zhang is a native of Hangzhou, in Zhejiang Province, \u201ca city that produces smart people,\u201d he explained on a recent afternoon from behind a desk with a view of Central Park and the Time Warner Center, where he lives. Jack Ma, the business magnate and founder of the Alibaba Group, is also from Hangzhou. \u201cPeople say, \u2018Who are the two most famous people from Hangzhou?\u2019 They say, \u2018Dr. Zhang and Jack Ma!\u2019\u201d Dr. Zhang\u2019s speaking style rarely omits enthusiastic punctuation. Infertility treatments can take a long time and often require daily blood tests, so his patients stay in hotels \u2014 expensive ones, like the Mandarin Oriental around the block \u2014 and go to restaurants, he pointed out. In many cases, they bring along their mothers and friends, generally supplementing the city\u2019s tax base with a kind of endocrinological tourism. Come for the Clomid, stay for Per Se. Some of Dr. Zhang\u2019s patients, envisioning further babies and more in vitro fertilization procedures and births in New York, wind up buying pieds-\u00e0-terre on West 57th Street, he told me. \u201cIt goes both ways,\u201d he remarked, meaning that he often receives patient referrals from real estate agents. Not long ago, Dr. Zhang was contacted by a local television news channel to talk about National Infertility Awareness Week. He realized that he didn\u2019t know anything about the campaign, and neither, he believed, did many of his colleagues. What possible significance could it have if some of the top practitioners in the field were doing nothing substantial in regard to it? Dr. Zhang decided he wanted to make the effort mean something, that it should be, as he put it, like Restaurant Week, when New York diners are offered reduced prices, in part to attract those who might not otherwise be able to afford the experience. As impetuously as one might choose to have chicken shawarma for lunch rather than a patty melt, Dr. Zhang decided he would hold a lottery to give away 30 in vitro fertilization cycles at no cost, amounting to roughly $1 million worth of treatment. Women age 43 and under would be eligible, and although drugs, which can be thousands of dollars a cycle, would not be included in the windfall, it was possible, after all, that a pharmaceutical company, in all of its largess, might want to participate with an offer of free medication. Couples would merely have to submit some basic information to New Hope via  email by May 1. One applicant quickly wrote in that she would love to win Dr. Zhang\u2019s lottery because she and her husband had been trying to conceive for eight years, and were now \u201cdesperate.\u201d Lotteries prey on the desperate, of course, and for this reason a similar scheme proposed in Britain several years ago was greeted with a certain horror by ethicists. More recently, some fertility clinics in the United States have employed another sort of gambling model, asking couples to pay more than usual for treatment up front, with the promise that if they did not bear a child, their money would be returned. In the case of Dr. Zhang\u2019s lottery, winners must agree to forfeit their anonymity, because their good fortune is to be announced next week via Facebook Live, as if they had won a chance for free makeovers at Sephora. What of the couples already haunted by infertility, the men and women who might have depleted their finances after two or three failed cycles of treatment, whose hearts are now soaring with new hope? What happens when they lose? Dr. Zhang\u2019s position remains that his gambit will ultimately lead to more discussion of infertility generally and reveal how vast the community of couples struggling with the issue really is. In a sense, what he is doing merely caricatures the Las Vegas-style medical culture we already live with, especially in New York, where often the best doctors don\u2019t take insurance \u2014 they need not bother \u2014 making themselves, in effect, available only to the well-off. Advances in infertility treatment, specifically the procedure pioneered by Dr. Zhang using nuclear transfer, known as egg rejuvenation, would only further favor the wealthy if it ever came into use. In this situation, the DNA of an older mother would infuse the healthy casing of a donor egg, from which the young donor\u2019s own DNA had been removed \u2014 \u201cThe Handmaid\u2019s Tale\u201d in a new, if more benign, version.", "source": "The New York Times", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/27/nyregion/zhang-fertility-center-lottery.html", "published_date": "2017-04-26T20:00:00-04:00", "section": "N.Y. / Region", "updated_date": "2017-04-27T19:00:03-04:00", "item_type": "Article", "material_type_facet": "News", "created_date": "2017-04-27T19:00:03-04:00", "abstract": "A clinic in New York is giving away costly reproductive treatments by the luck of the draw, laying bare the Las Vegas-style medical culture in the city.", "title": "Baby-Making by Lottery"}