{"updated_date": "2017-05-02T22:10:55-04:00", "text": "Three men, described by federal prosecutors as members of an armed robbery crew, were charged on Tuesday with taking part in the early morning shooting and robbery of the former New York Knicks forward Cleanthony Early in 2015, after he left a strip club in Queens. According to court papers filed in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, the three men \u2014 Johan Antney, 26, of Queens, and Dashawn Tejada, 26, and Shaqueel Walker, 25, both of Brooklyn \u2014 drove in separate vehicles to the CityScapes Gentlemen\u2019s Club in the Maspeth section of Queens, early on Dec. 30, 2015. Once they arrived, the papers said, the men \u201cwere informed of the presence of professional basketball players in the club\u201d and waited in their cars until Mr. Early, 26, left with a girlfriend and climbed into a gray Toyota Camry driven by an Uber driver. Prosecutors said that after following the Camry for about a mile, the three men boxed it in with their own cars, forcing it stop in the middle of the road. The men \u2014 wearing ski masks and two carrying small semiautomatic guns \u2014 got out of their cars and ordered Mr. Early to get out of his, the authorities said. According to the court papers, Mr. Early was robbed of two cellphones, several necklaces and the gold caps from his teeth, and was shot in the knee by Mr. Tejada. His companion was unharmed, and nothing was taken from her. After the robbery, the defendants fled. The crime occurred at an odd moment for the National Basketball Association, which just the week before had thrown the weight of its valuable brand behind an advertising campaign calling for an end to gun violence, aligning itself with a group founded by then Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who had pushed for stricter limits on firearm sales. It was not until April 2016 that city detectives and agents from the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Firearms, Tobacco and Explosives made a break in the case, arresting another Brooklyn man, Delvon Dowling, who later confessed to taking part in the attack. Mr. Dowling pleaded guilty to robbery charges in Brooklyn last month. Prosecutors said that investigators were still searching for two more possible suspects. The attack on Mr. Early, who was waived by the Knicks in October 2016 and played in the N.B.A. Development League this season, was not the only one that the men committed that night, prosecutors said. According to the court papers, they had also robbed someone outside a barbershop in Queens, using the same tactic of surrounding their victim and brandishing a gun. Two weeks earlier, the crew had robbed another victim who was sitting in a parked car outside a nightclub in Manhattan, the papers said. And the month before, Mr. Tejada and an unnamed partner took part in an armed robbery of a victim who was parked outside of CityScapes. During all of those attacks, Mr. Antney was on parole after serving a three-year sentence in connection with a 2012 conviction for attempted burglary. Mr. Tejada, the court papers said, currently has two gun cases pending in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, one of which involved the November 2011 shooting of a German tourist. Mr. Walker has no prior criminal convictions, but the court papers said that a bench warrant had been issued against him in Carbon County, Pa., for failing to appear in court on charges connected to the possession of burglary tools. All three men pleaded not guilty at their arraignment in Brooklyn on Tuesday. Magistrate Judge Ramon E. Reyes Jr. ordered them held without bail.", "abstract": "Federal prosecutors said the three men robbed the former Knicks forward of cellphones, jewelry and gold teeth in an orchestrated attack after he exited a strip club, leaving him shot in the knee.", "time": "2017-05-02T22:10:55-04:00", "material_type_facet": "News", "section": "N.Y. / Region", "url": "https://www.nytimes.com/2017/05/02/nyregion/knicks-cleanthony-early-3-arrested.html", "item_type": "Article", "source": "NYT", "published_date": "2017-05-01T20:00:00-04:00", "title": "3 Arrested in 2015 Shooting and Robbery of Ex-Knick Cleanthony Early in Queens"}